


	
        What's with those blank taskbar buttons that go away when I click on them?          Raymond Chen        
            
            December 29th, 20030 0
		
        Sometimes you’ll find a blank taskbar button that goes away when you click on it. What’s the deal with that?
There are some basic rules on which windows go into the taskbar. In short:

If the WS_EX_APPWINDOW extended style is set, then it will show (when visible).   
If the window is a top-level unowned window, then it will show (when visible).   
Otherwise it doesn’t show. 

(Though the ITaskbarList interface muddies this up a bit.)
When a taskbar-eligible window becomes visible, the taskbar creates a button for it. When a taskbar-eligible window becomes hidden, the taskbar removes the button.
The blank buttons appear when a window changes between taskbar-eligible and taskbar-ineligible while it is visible. Follow:

Window is taskbar-eligible.   
Window becomes visible ? taskbar button created.   
Window goes taskbar-ineligible.   
Window becomes hidden ? since the window is not taskbar-eligible at this point, the taskbar ignores it. 

Result: A taskbar button that hangs around with no window attached to it.
This is why the documentation also advises, “If you want to dynamically change a window’s style to one that doesn’t support visible taskbar buttons, you must hide the window first (by calling ShowWindow with SW_HIDE), change the window style, and then show the window.”
Bonus question: Why doesn’t the taskbar pay attention to all windows as they come and go?
Answer: Because that would be expensive. The filtering out of windows that aren’t taskbar-eligible happens inside USER32 and it then notifies the taskbar (or anybody else who has installed a WH_SHELL hook) via one of the HSHELL_* notifications only if a taskbar-eligibie window has changed state. That way, the taskbar code doesn’t get paged in when there’s nothing for it to to. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Tips/Support
	

