


	
        A very brief anecdote about Windows 3.0          Raymond Chen        
            
            April 7th, 20040 0
		
          In an earlier comment, Larry Osterman described why Windows 3.0 was  such a runaway success.  He got a little of the timeline wrong,  so I’ll correct it here.
  Windows 2.0 did support protected mode.  And it was Windows/386, which came out before Windows 3.0,  which first used the new virtual-x86 mode of the 80386 processor  to support pre-emptively multitasked DOS boxes.  The old Windows 2.0 program was renamed “Windows/286” to keep  the names in sync.
  The three modes of Windows then became “real mode” (Windows 1.0 style),  “standard mode” (Windows/286 style) and “enhanced mode” (Windows/386 style).  Amazingly, even though the way the operating system used the processor was  radically different in each of the three modes, a program written for  “real mode” successfully ran without change in the other two modes.  You could write a single program that ran on all three operating systems.
  And then Windows 3.0 came out and the world changed.  Sales were through the roof.  I remember that some major software reseller (Egghead?)  was so pleased with the success of Windows 3.0 that  it bought bought every Microsoft employee a Dove ice cream bar.  (Even the employees like me who were working on OS/2.)  I was sitting in my office and some people came in  with a big box of ice cream bars and they handed me one.  “This is from Egghead. Thank you for making Windows 3.0 a success,” they said.
  It was a strange feeling, getting a thank-you for something  you not only didn’t work on, but something which totally destroyed  the project you were working on!
  [Raymond is currently on vacation; this message was pre-recorded.]  

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

