


	
        The look of Luna          Raymond Chen        
            
            March 31st, 20040 1
		
        Luna was the code name for the Windows XP “look”.  The designers did a lot of research (and got off to a lot of false  starts, as you might expect) before they came  to the design they ultimately settled upon.
  During the Luna studies,  that people’s reaction to Luna was often,  “Wow this would be a great UI for X,” where X was  “my dad” or “my employees” or “my daughter”.  People didn’t look at it as the UI for themselves;  rather, they thought it was a great UI for somebody else.
  It was sometimes quite amusing to read the feedback.  One person would write,  “I can see how this UI would work great  in a business environment, but it wouldn’t  work on a home computer.” and the very next person would  write “I can see how this UI would work great  on a home computer, but it wouldn’t  work in a business environment.”
  (And interestingly, even though armchair usability experts  claim that the “dumbed-down UI” is a hindrance, our studies  showed that people were actually more  productive with the so-called “dumb” UI.  Armchair usability experts also claim that the Luna look  is “too silly for serious business purposes”, but in reality it  tested very well on the “looks professional” scale.)
  Aero is the code name for the Longhorn “look”.  With Aero, the designers have turned an important corner.  Now, when they show Aero to people, the reaction is,  “Wow, this would be a great UI for me to use.”
  People want Luna for others, but they want Aero for themselves.
  [Raymond is currently on vacation; this message was pre-recorded.]  

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

