


	
        Astonishingly, rules apply to everyone.          Raymond Chen        
            
            April 15th, 20040 0
		
        Spain’s Crown Prince and his fiancée are outraged that    they had to go through airport security in Miami.
  “The prince and his bodyguard felt they should not be subjected  to the screening,  but if they do not have an escort from the State Department  or the Secret Service, it is required,” she added. “It is the law.”   
  Apparently, the Prince did not give the standard 72 hours’ notice  to obtain pre-clearance.  (Hm, I wonder if I can get pre-clearance by submitting my itinerary  72 hours in advance.)
  What bugs me even more is that the officials in Miami are all  apologetic!
  Miami-Dade County Mayor Alex Penelas sent the  royal family a letter of apology on the same day,  calling the situation “lamentable”.   
  Reminds me of an article in the  New York Times Magazine a few years ago  titled  Life is a Contact Sport [fee required],  describing a mandatory meeting for all NFL rookies to  introduce them to the “real world”.  My favorite part was this:
  Kendrell Bell, a  Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker, tells of his great awakening to the  verities of income tax: “I got a million-dollar signing bonus. But  then I got the check, and it was only $624,000. I thought, Oh, well,  I’ll get the other half later. Then I found out that’s all there was.  I thought, They can’t do this to me. Then I got on the Internet and I  found out they can.”  
  Shocking!  Football players have to pay income tax!  Where will the  injustice end?
  Happy Tax Day (US).  

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

