


	
        Why do text files end in Ctrl+Z?          Raymond Chen        
            
            March 16th, 20040 1
		
        Actually, text files don’t need to end in Ctrl+Z,  but the convention persists in certain circles.  (Though, fortunately, those circles are awfully small nowadays.)
  This story requires us to go back to CP/M, the operating system  that MS-DOS envisioned itself as a successor to.  (Since  the 8086 envisioned itself as the successor to the 8080,  it was natural that the operating  system for the 8086 would view itself as the successor to the  primary operating system on the 8080.)
  In CP/M, files were stored in “sectors” of 128 bytes each.  If your file was 64 byte long, it was stored in a full sector.  The kicker was that the operating system tracked the size of the  file as the number of sectors.  So if your file was not an exact multiple of 128 bytes in size,  you needed some way to specify where the “real” end-of-file was.
  That’s where Ctrl+Z came in.
  By convention, the unused bytes at the end of the last sector  were padded with Ctrl+Z characters.  According to this convention, if you had a program that read  from a file, it should stop when it reads a Ctrl+Z, since that  meant that it was now reading the padding.
  To retain compatibility with CP/M, MS-DOS carried forward  the Ctrl+Z convention. That way, when you transferred your  files from your old CP/M machine to your new PC, they wouldn’t  have garbage at the end.
  Ctrl+Z hasn’t been needed for years; MS-DOS records file sizes  in bytes rather than sectors. But the convention lingers  in the “COPY” command, for example.  

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

