


	
        What’s this fascination with Germanic languages?          Raymond Chen        
            
            July 1st, 20040 0
		
        Some people wondered about    my fascination with Germanic languages  and asked why I didn’t branch out  to other language families.
  It’s basically laziness.
  I grew up speaking English (and a little of the Holo dialect,  most of which has by now vanished from disuse), then studied German  in high school and college, and most recently added Swedish in preparation  for a trip there.
  Swedish was easy to pick up because it nestles nicely  between German and English.  And that’s when I realized that laziness  was the key:  If you always pick a language close to the ones you  already know, it will not be so hard to learn.
  So my list of languages follows a chain of closely-related languages,  so each one can be used as leverage for the next.  Except for Icelandic,  which strikes me as “like German, before the Germans decided to simplify  their grammar” – that has its own appeal.  I saved it for last.
  I have colleagues who speak Dutch and Afrikaans,  so learning those languages would allow me to confuse and  annoy them.  Because that’s the main reason for learning a  language: To confuse and annoy.
  (One of my South African colleagues describes Afrikaans as  “the language you get when you throw a bunch of Dutchmen  into the bush and have them chased by lions for a few hundred  years.”)
  I have a former colleague who has since  returned to Denmark.  We always teased him about his native  country and language when he was around,  and he was a good sport about it.  He’s the one who taught  me the phrase  “En  gang til for prins Knud“.  I removed Danish from the list of Germanic languages  partly to tease him from afar and partly because the  strange Danish pronunciation scares me.
  But for now, my pan-Germanic ambitions are on hold.  As the Swedes out there  already know,  I’ve started studying Mandarin Chinese  Even though I grew up with a tonal language (Holo has seven  tones, as opposed to just the four of Mandarin),  I never got very good at pronouncing the tones,  even though I can hear the difference easily in most cases.  So I’m in the embarrassing position of speaking badly and recognizing it  immediately.
  Update: With some help from my father, I think I figured out  the Mandarin third tone, which was the only one I had been  having trouble with.  The trick:  The way the books explain how  the third tone works does not match the way people  pronounce it in real life.  But the way the books explain it is so deeply ingrained in  the way people think about the pronunciation of the tone  that they continue to insist that’s  how it’s done even though it isn’t.  

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

