


	
        Summary of the recent spate of /3GB articles          Raymond Chen        
            
            August 22nd, 20040 0
		
         A table of contents now that the whole thing is over. I hope. 

The     oft-misunderstood /3GB switch.     It’s simple to explain what it does, but people often misunderstand. 
Kernel     address space consequences of the /3GB switch.     An adverse consequence of the /3GB switch. 
Myth:     Without /3GB the total amount of memory that can be allocated     across all programs is 2GB.     Virtual memory is not virtual address space (part 1). 
Myth:     Without /3GB a single program can’t allocate more than 2GB     of virtual memory.     Virtual memory is not virtual address space (part 2). 
Myth:     You need /3GB if you have more than 2GB of physical memory.     Virtual address space is not physical memory. 
Myth:     The /3GB switch expands the user-mode address space of all programs.     A program must request it before it gets it. 
Why     does Exchange recommend /3GB if you have more than     1GB of physical memory?     Bologna and cheese sandwiches. 
Myth:     The /3GB switch lets me map one giant 3GB block of memory.     There are still holes in the virtual address space. 
Why     is the virtual address space 4GB anyway?     That’s what happens when you have 32-bit pointers. 
Myth:     PAE increases the virtual address space beyond 4GB.     PAE is an extension for physical address, not virtual addresses. 
Myth:     In order to use AWE, you must enable PAE.     The two are independent.     AWE is how programs access physical memory.     PAE is how the CPU accesses physical memory. 
The     curious interaction between PAE and NX.     NX uses a feature available only in PAE mode. 

 I’m not sure how successful this series has been, though, for it appears that even people who have read the articles  continue to confuse virtual address space with physical address space. (Or maybe this person is merely mocking a faulty argument? I can’t tell for sure.) 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

