


	
        Myth: The /3GB switch expands the user-mode address space of all programs          Raymond Chen        
            
            August 12th, 20040 0
		
        
Only programs marked as /LARGEADDRESSAWARE are affected.


For compatibility reasons, only programs that explicitly
indicate that they are prepared to handle a virtual address space
larger than 2GB will get the larger virtual address space.
Unmarked programs get the normal 2GB virtual address space,
and the address space between 2GB and 3GB goes unused.


Why?


Because far too many programs assume that the high bit of user-mode
virtual addresses is always clear, often unwittingly.

MSDN has a page listing some of the ways programs make this
assumption.
One such assumption you may be making is taking
the midpoint between two pointers by using the formula
(a+b)/2.

As I noted in a previous exercise,
this is subject to integer overflow and consequently can result
in an erroneous pointer computation.
Consequently, you can’t just take an existing program that you didn’t
write, mark it /LARGEADDRESSAWARE, and declare your job done.
You have to check with the authors of that program that they verified
that their code does not make any 2GB assumptions.
(And the fact that the authors
didn’t mark their program as 3GB-compatible
strongly suggests that no such verification has occurred.
If it had, they would have marked the program /LARGEADDRESSAWARE!)


Marking your program /LARGEADDRESSAWARE indicates to the operating
system, “Go ahead and give this program access to that extra
gigabyte of user-mode address space,”
and as a result, addresses in the third gigabyte
become possible return values from memory allocation functions.
If you set

the “Top down” flag in the
memory manager allocation preferences mask
(search for “top down”),
you can instruct the memory manager to allocate high-address memory
first, thereby forcing your program to deal with those addresses
sooner than it normally would.
This is very handy when testing your program in a /3GB configuration
since it forces the troublesome memory addresses to be used sooner
than normal.


Exercise: Find the bug in the following function.
Hint: What’s today’s topic?


#define BUFFER_SIZE 32768
BOOL  IsPointerInsideBuffer(const BYTE *p, const BYTE *buffer)
{
  return p >= buffer && p - buffer < BUFFER_SIZE;
}


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

