


	
        Augusto Pinochet's beverage preferences are a matter of national security          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 15th, 20040 0
		
        It appears that    Augusto Pinochet’s  beverage preferences are a matter of national security.  The web site offers the original and redacted versions of the same  document, so you can see what sorts of information the U.S. government  considers to be worthy of redaction.
  On a related redactorial note,    researchers demonstrated last month a technique for  identifying blacked-out words and phrases in confidential  documents.
  On a related Pinochet note:  In the United States, it has become common for grocery stores to offer  “loyalty cards”, which offer discounts on selected goods in  exchange for the store being able to track every single item you  purchase.  Everybody hates these cards but uses them anyway because the  non-card prices are often absurd.  What people often did when signing up for the cards was to provide  bogus information.  
  My card is in the name of  former Chilean dictator  “Augusto U. Pinochet“.
  It turns out that this particular grocery chain has a policy that  all cashier must thank the customer by name  at the conclusion of the transaction.  So after I pay for my  groceries, the cashier says, “Thank you, Mr. Pinochet.”
  Except that it turns out that “Pinochet” is  hard to pronounce.  (Consensus on this continues to be hard to achieve.  Many others claim the correct pronunciation is  “Pee-no-chet“.  I use that pronunciation, too, myself, for no good reason.)
  I’ve been called “Mr. Peanut-Chew”,  “Mr. P’Notch-et”, and “Mr… how do you pronounce that?”  (To which I say, “Pee-no-chet.  It’s a Chilean name.”  And the cashier says, “Ooh, that’s very interesting.”)  Only one person even recognized the name as that of the man  under whose brutal rule thousands of people simply “disappeared”.
  (I never actually expected the fake name to go through.  I assumed that somebody would have recognized  it and deleted it from the system. But no, the entry remains.  Occasionally, when Pinochet makes international headlines,  I consider the possibility  that some people may show up at my house looking for him.)  

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

