


	
        Ringside seats at Fruit Fly Fight Club          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 28th, 20040 0
		
        The first rule of    Fruit Fly Fight Club:  Flies can’t talk about Fruit Fly Fight Club.  Because they can’t talk at all.  At least not to humans.
  Researchers at Harvard Medical School took a break from    studying lobster fighting and shifted their focus to  fruit fly fights, and even    mutant fruit fly fights.
  (Via    The Annals of Improbable Research.)
  Fruit flies are strange creatures.  Or perhaps it’s that fruit fly researchers are strange creatures.
  One of my cousins was a fruit fly researcher.  She took fruit fly testicles and squashed them and then studied  them under a microscope, looking for… something… I forget.  I think just finding the fruit fly testicles in the first place  was accomplishment enough.
  Fruit fly researchers like to give their discoveries strange names.  Typically, a gene is named after what results when you disable it.  For example,  a gene without which fruit flies die in two days is named  Kenny,  after the South Park character.
  My favorite: The gene without which fruit flies get  drunk really easily is called    cheap date.  (That last page has several more funny gene names.)
  Yes, that’s right.    Fruit flies get drunk.  There’s a fruit fly drunk-o-meter, though I forget how it works.  But one amusing aspect of fruit fly drunkenness is that just before  they finally pass out, there’s a big burst of activity.
  Strange gene naming has spread beyond the fruit fly world.  There is a human gene named    sonic hedgehog after the Sega video game character.  (It’s related to the fruit fly gene “hedgehog”, so named because  disabling it causes the fly to develop into a ball with spikes.)  

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

