


	
        Spammers look stupid when they don’t read the blog they spam on          Raymond Chen        
            
            August 4th, 20040 0
		
        Yesterday, I got a 419 scam via the contact form.  This is a new low for spam stupidity.  You’d think people who blog are more likely to be aware of Internet scams  because they’re reading the news, are clearly more comfortable with  technology, and often    make fun of news stories about 419 scammers.
  But if you’re for real, I have this to say to you:  Be careful!  I’m sure you are being completely truthful  when you say you are the only child of Deposed Corrupt Dictator XYZ,  but be aware that there are many unscrupulous people  claiming the same thing!  So watch out for Vivian, Pierre,  Lama, Austine, Martin, Kabilla, Jean Paul, Farek,  David, Curimbada, Cynthia, and of course, Dictator Junior.  It’s very disappointing that there are so many impostors  trying to get their hands on the fortune  that you stole and that by rights belongs to you.  
  Also watch out for XYZ’s former Finance Minister, accountant,  widow, brother, and hair stylist.  They’re after the same thing.  
  Good luck.  
  (I also find it impressive that you were able to embezzle  $100 billion U.S. dollars, since your country raises less than  $2 billion per year in tax revenues. How you managed to amass  that much money so quickly is truly an amazing accomplishment  of economics.  If you returned even just half of that money  back to the country in exchange for amnesty, that would fund  your government for a generation.  Think about it.  Do it for the children.)  
  P.S. I was joking about the hair stylist. Please don’t hurt him.  

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

