


	
        Why can’t I use the same tree item multiple times?          Raymond Chen        
            
            July 1st, 20040 0
		
        It’s the continuing balance between ease-of-use and generality.
  At a literal level, you can’t use the same tree items in multiple  places in the tree, because then various properties would become  ambiguous, properties like TVGN_PARENT or TVIS_EXPANDED.  (If a tree could be in two places, then it would have two parents,  for example.)
  Of course, this problem could have been solved by separating the  item content from the item presence.  So instead of just having  an HTREEITEM, there would be, say, HTREENODE and HTREENODECONTENTS.  The node would represent a physical location in the tree,  and the item contents would represent the contents of that node:  its name, icon, etc.
  Sure, that could have been done, but remember the balance.  You’re making the common case hard in order to benefit the rare case.  Now everybody who is manipulating treeviews has to worry about  twice as many objects (what used to be one item is now a node plus contents).  This is generally not the balance you want to strike when  designing an interface.
  When you design an interface, you want to  make the common case easier than the rare case.
  A program that wants this separation can, of course, do the  separation manually.  Put all the  contents in a separate shareable structure and have your HTREEITEMs  refer to that shared structure in their lParams.  This is more work for the program, but now the cost is being  shouldered by the one who wants the extra functionality.  

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

