


	
        Why are documents printed out of order when you multiselect and choose “Print”?          Raymond Chen        
            
            December 3rd, 20040 0
		
        If you select say five files and then right-click them and choose “Print”, they tend to print in a random order. Why is that?
 The shell invokes the Print verb on each file in turn, and depending on how the program responsible for printing the document is registered, one of several things can happen. 

Most commonly, the program that prints the document     registered a simple command line under the shell\print\command     registry key.     In this case, the program is launched five times, each     with a different file.  All these print commands are now     racing to the printer and it’s a question of which copy     of the program submits its print job first that determines     the order in which they come out of the printer.     (You’re probably going to see the shortest and simplest      documents come out first since they take less time to render.) 
Occasionally, the program that prints the document     registered a DDE verb under the shell\print\ddeexec registry key.     In this case, one copy of the program is launched and it is     given each filename one at a time.     What it does with those filenames is now up to the program.     If the program supports background printing, it will probably     shunt the printing of the document onto a background thread,     and now you’re roughly in the same fix as the previous scenario:     Five background threads each racing to see who can submit their     print job first. 
Extremely rarely, the program that prints the document registered     a drop handler under the shell\print\DropTarget key.     In this case, the drop target is instantiated and is given the     list of files.  It is then up to the drop target to decide     what to do with the documents. 

 These three ways of registering print actions are described  in the MSDN documentation on verbs and file associations. 
 [Update: 7:30am, fixed title.] 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

