


	
        Went to a Seattle Thunderbirds game this weekend          Raymond Chen        
            
            March 2nd, 20040 0
		
        This past weekend I fell into tickets to a    Seattle Thunderbirds game.  (The  Seattle Thunderbirds  belong to the “U.S. Division” of the otherwise-Canadian  Western Hockey League, one of the  three Major Junior Leagues.)
  I hadn’t been to a hockey game since my college days.  It was quite enjoyable and I may very well do it again.
  On the message board, the various groups in attendance  were recognized.  In addition to the usual things  like “Fred’s 9th Birthday” and “Company X”, there  was the curious juxtaposition of  “David’s Bachelor Party” and  “XYZ Church”.  I hope they weren’t seated next to each other.
  I was there with a bunch of seventh graders  and their parents because the middle school choir performed  the Canadian and U.S. national anthems.  I had forgotten that to seventh graders,  the world is one giant social event, just with  different background noise.  In this case, it was a big social event with  hockey noise in the background.  They were chatting away, waving to their friends,  changing seats, calling each other on their  cell phones, writing notes to each other…
  To give you an idea of the tenor of play,  I refer you to the    game report:  Under “Seattle Penalties”, observe that in the second period,  player number 28 was assessed a  two-minute roughing penalty which expired at 3:13.  Now look down a little bit more:  At 3:23, the same player  was assessed a Checking from Behind penalty.  I watched this happen.  When his penalty expired, the player dashed out of the penalty  box straight for an opposing player and walloped him.  And then was promptly sent back off the ice.
  Ah, minor league hockey.  “We may not play very well, but we make up for it with really  aggressive tactics.”
  And yes multiple fights broke out,  to my disappointment (but to the delight of the crowd,  it appears).  As we left, I overheard one seventh grader say to her  friend, “It was fun, but there wasn’t enough fighting.”  

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer The wisdom of seventh graders
	

