


	
        Suggestion Box 2          Raymond Chen        
            
            March 1st, 20050 0
		
        Post suggestions for future topics here instead of posting off-topic comments. Note that the suggestion box is emptied and read periodically so don’t be surprised if your suggestion vanishes. (Note also that I am under no obligation to accept any suggestion.)
Topics I are more inclined to cover:

Windows history (particularly the Windows 95 era). 
Windows user interface programming in Win32, and shell programming in particular. 
General programming topics (selectively). 
Issues of general interest. 
My personal hobbies.

Topics I am not inclined to cover:

The blog software itself.  You can send feedback about .Text to its author, Scott Watermasysk. 
Internet Explorer. You can try the IE folks. 
Visual Studio.  You can try one of the Visual Studio blogs. 
Managed code. This is not a .NET blog. I do not work on .NET technologies. As far as .NET is concerned, I’m just another programmer like you. Occasionally I touch a .NET-related topic, but I do not bring any expertise to the subject. 
Non-software Microsoft topics, such as product support policies, marketing tactics, and hiring policy. 
Microsoft software that isn’t Windows. (Exchange, Office, …) 
Windows topics outside user interface programming. (Plug and Play, Terminal Services, Windows Messenger, Outlook Express, SQL, IIS, remoting, SOA…) 
User interface programming in anything other than Win32. (Because I know nothing about it.) 
Debugging a specific problem. (Not of general interest.) 
Legal issues. 
Predictions for the future. (What’s the title of this blog again?)

(Due to the way the blog server is set up, a new suggestion box gets set up every 30 days, assuming I don’t forget to create a new one. If I forget, you can send me a reminder via the Contact page. You can also peek at the previous suggestion box.)

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Pages
	

