


	
        How can a company get access to Windows Error Reporting data?          Raymond Chen        
            
            August 10th, 20050 0
		
         What happens to all the crashes in programs not written by Microsoft that are submitted via Windows Error Reporting? Microsoft still collects and indexes them, and vendors  can sign up to gain access to the error reporting database to see the crashes in their programs. The service is free, although it does require a  Verisign ID so that the Winqual system can confirm that you are who you claim you are. (It would be bad if somebody could pretend to be, say,  Adobe, and get all their crash data.) 
 There will be a session at  the PDC which will go into how you the software developer can take advantage of all this data in order to improve your product from pre-release through general availability and even into sustained engineering. 
 Windows Vista: Improving your Products Code Quality through Windows Feedback Services 
 Your customers are sharing their pain and product experiences with you. Are you listening? Learn how to use the updated automated feedback mechanisms in Windows to gather, view and act upon customer Feedback data. Windows Feedback data will enable you to improve quality early in your product cycle, prioritize work and fix problems your users are encountering on a daily basis; even lower your support costs while increasing customer satisfaction and reliability of your applications. 

 Yes, it’s a kind of boring title. The original title was “Turning dissatisfied customers into gold”. I would’ve used something like “Your program is crashing. Are you listening?” Oh well, the title isn’t important. What’s important is that you can use this information to make your products better. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

