


	
        What was Dr. Watson’s original name?          Raymond Chen        
            
            November 14th, 20050 0
		
        
What most people probably don’t know is that

Dr. Watson’s name
wasn’t originally “Dr. Watson”.


The original name of the diagnostic tool was “Sherlock”,
whose icon was a lit drop-stem pipe.
I remember chatting about the Doctor with its author,

the late Don Corbitt, whose office was just a few doors down from mine.
In 1991, he had to change the name from “Sherlock” to “Dr. Watson”;
I had forgotten why, but

Danny Glasser came to my rescue
and reminded me that there was already a debugging tool called
“Sherlock” that had come out a few years previously.
The name had to change,
and the Doctor stepped in to fill Sherlock’s shoes.
The icon was originally a doctor’s bag, but it changed to the
stethoscope-wielding general practitioner a few months later.


You should also check out

Matt Pietrek’s reminiscences about Dr. Watson.


A note about Don Corbitt.
He was a tall fellow with a deep booming voice,
but he never used it.
Instead, he spoke in a gentle, reassuring tone,
backing it up with code that was always solid.
I consider it an honor to have worked with him.
Taking up the mantle of keeping the Doctor up to date with the
latest forensic techniques,
I updated it (i.e., rewrote it from scratch) for
Windows 98.
I was not a member of the Windows 98 team but wrote
the program as a favor to them at great personal cost.
(My then-boss didn’t approve of my little side project
and made his displeasure known at my next performance review.)


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

