


	
        Dinner at the Herbfarm in Woodinville          Raymond Chen        
            
            July 25th, 20050 0
		
        As part of the  going-away festivities for my friend, a group of us went to The Herbfarm, the local restaurant referenced in  Clue I of Puzzle #3.
 The restaurant is nestled in the Sammamish Valley, right next to the Willows Lodge resort and its restaurant,  The Barking Frog. Less than a kilometer down the road is the  Chateau Ste. Michelle Winery. All the high-falutin’ wine-snob destinations in one convenient location. (Right behind is the  Redhook Brewery, if you tire of the whole urbane ambience and just want a beer and a sandwich.) 
 Actually, the word “restaurant” doesn’t do the Herbfarm justice. It’s really a “total dining experience”. The evening begins at 4pm with a tour of the herb garden. After heading inside, you are introduced to the evening’s menu and the restaurant staff. (This restaurant has a staff mushroom forager!) Once the introductions are complete, the nine-course five-hour meal begins. 
 For posterity, I record the menu below. 
  A Fete for the Sun The Herbfarm • Sunday, July 24, 2005 
 From the Water’s Edge Paddlefish Caviar on Cucumber Gelée Westcott Bay Mussel Skewer Razor Clams with Sea Beans 1999 Argyle Oregon Brut 
 Spice-Crusted Pacific Albacore On a Salad of Beets, Wasabi, and Dill 2003 Rulo Winery Viognier, Walla Walla 
 Dungeness Crab, Chanterelle, & Lamb’s Quarter Lasagna 2004 Dr. Loosen/Chateau Ste. Michelle “Eroica” Riesling 
 Troll-Caught Sockeye Salmon Slow Roasted in Squash Blossoms With Zucchini Strands and Sorrel-Lemon Thyme Sauce 2004 Chinook Wines Rosé of Cabernet Franc 
 Tarragon Ice & Apricot Float 
 Three Tastes of Muscovy Duck Lavender-Crusted Breast on Onion Pudding With Black Currant Sauce Duck Confit with Just-Dug Potatoes Slow-Braised Leg on Morel Risotto 2002 Cougar Crest Reserve Syrah, Stellar Vineyard 
 An Herbfarm Garden Salad With Currants & Sally Jackson Guernsey Cow Cheese 
 Sonata of Summer Desserts Anise Hyssop Panna Cotta with Raspberries Marionberry-Rose Geranium Ice Cream Cone Almond-Filled Donut Peach with Lemon Verbena Yogurt Ice Cream 
 Brewed Coffees, Teas & Infusions 
 A Selection of Small Treats Vintage 1916 Barbeito Malvazia Madeira 
 Multigrain Rolls & Herbed Foccacia 

 Between the duck and salad courses, we stepped outside to  feed the pigs. 
 The preliminary tour of the herb garden primed me to appreciate the extensive range of herbs employed in the various dishes. (We also learned herb trivia—daylilies are edible, as are zucchini and chive blossoms. I found this part most fascinating, learning about herbs and how the various elements were chosen for the dishes to come.) The garden salad, it seemed, didn’t have two leaves from the same plant! 
 If you’re considering paying the Herbfarm a visit, be warned: You need to make reservations months in advance, and the evening will set you back a pretty penny. 
 And we did pay the bill before we left. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

