


	
        Studs from Microsoft          Raymond Chen        
            
            February 14th, 20060 0
		
         Chris Sells reminded me of the Studs from Microsoft sketch (direct link to video), a parody of the dating game show Studs, as performed by the now-defunct local sketch comedy program   Almost Live! And yes, in that sketch is Bill Nye at the midpoint of his rise to stardom. Between his careers as Boeing mechanical engineer and nationally-recognized “Science Guy“, he was on Almost Live!, performing both comedy and  science demonstrations.
 The program had quite an enthusiastic following in its day. If you were new to the area, sooner or later one of your friends would sit you down and force you to watch a half hour of sketches. It was a crash course in local geography and culture, with jokes about Ballard, Mercer Island, Renton, and Lynnwood flying left and right. (The  Ballard Driving Academy is perhaps their greatest accomplishment.)
 I noted earlier that one of its recurring sketches  influenced a feedback tool included in the betas of Windows XP. I stole their “A or B” sketch for my  Coffee machine or assault weapon? quiz (though you’ll have to imagine the “ding”s).
 One of my favorite sketches was the game show parody Pike or Pine?, wherein contestants were given descriptions of businesses or other landmarks, and they had to say whether the location in question was on Pike Street or Pine Street. The two streets run parallel and nobody, not even people who spent their entire lives in Seattle, can remember what is on Pike and what is on Pine. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

