


	
        2006 end-of-year link clearance          Raymond Chen        
            
            December 29th, 20060 0
		
        A few random links that I’ve collected.

How to be an 31337 hax04 and send mail to a DL     to which you don’t have rights. 
Suggestions on what to do if you have only one day to visit Seattle.          Original anchor article by the Seattle Times staff.          Broken down by category.          Reader feedback.          More feedback. 
Ask a Ninja. 
“Effort” is now a verb.     (Previous coverage of new verbs.) 
It’s funny because it’s what would be true if people just said it.          Truth in Advertising,          The Reel Truth Part 1,          Part 2.          The entire DVD is available on Amazon. 
Link to     MetaFilter thread parodying itself, in an attempt to show     how hip I am but in reality only confirming that I’m     unfashionably late to the party. 
Scott     Adams’ blog.     I thoroughly enjoy his take on the world.     He also seems to enjoy pushing people’s buttons. 
Win32 I/O cancellation support in Vista.     Also of note is that the new driver verifier will attempt to     identify drivers who fail to cancel I/O when requested.     With luck, this will reduce the number of process          stuck in Task Manager because they     are being held hostage by incomplete I/O. 
Norway has socked away over $200 billion in their oil revenue fund.     I love the sound clip of the equity trading room.     Classic northern European restraint. 
Precision garbage disposal. 

 And then the obligatory plug for my column in  TechNet Magazine:

The story behind the names of various system directories. 
Why are shortcuts files instead of… um… something else? 
The compatibility constraints of even context menus. 
More ramblings on compatibility. 
Waiting for RunOnce.     I didn’t submit it in time, but the biographical blurb at the bottom     was supposed to read, “He once speedread Waiting for Godot,     unsuccessfully.” 
Getting out of DLL Hell.     I dropped the ball on the title,     since it implies that the dot-local technique is a solution,     when it’s really just a stopgap.     On the plus side hand, the TechNet crew added a bunch of new languages:     Italian,     Korean,     Japanese,     and Traditional Chinese. 

 And then the obligatory book plug: The  electronic-only PDF version is now available for purchase, and it’s cheaper than the dead tree edition. (Don’t forget that  the dead tree edition comes with 45 days of free access to the electronic edition.)
  My prediction? “Jim Allchin will retire on November 13, 2006.” I was wrong. I based my prediction on the fact that  Microsoft announced that Allchin “plans to retire at the end of calendar year 2006 following the commercial availability of Windows Vista.” The year was set; the rest was trying to guess the day. I haven’t seen any announcement saying that plans have changed, so I assume it’s still operative. The year isn’t over yet, but there’s not much time left.
 (Then again, what is commercial availability? Apparently, the PR people think it means “the date the product is available to the general public at retail,” but to me it means “the date the product can be purchased.” So-called business availability was last month, and selling stuff to businesses is commerce, so that counts as commercial availability in my book. But apparently my interpretation of the English language doesn’t count for anything, so I’m expecting to see Jim’s letter of resignation on January 31st.) 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

