


	
        A new scripting language doesn't solve everything          Raymond Chen        
            
            April 27th, 20060 0
		
        
Yes, there are plenty of scripting languages that are much
better than boring old batch.
Batch files were definitely a huge improvement over SUBMIT
back in 1981,
but they’ve been showing their age for quite some time.
The advanced age of boring old batch, on the other hand, means that you have
millions of batch files out there that you had better not break if you
know what’s good for you.
(Sure, in retrospect, you might decide to call the batch language

a design mistake,
but remember that it had to run in 64KB
of memory on a 4.77MHz machine while still remaining compatible in
spirit with CP/M.)



Shipping a new command shell
doesn’t solve everything either.
For one thing,
you have to decide if you are going to support classic batch files or not.
Maybe you decide that you won’t and prefer to

force people to rewrite all their
batch files into your new language.
Good luck on that.


On the other hand, if you decide that you will support batch files after all,
then
presumably your new command shell will not execute old batch files
natively, but rather will defer to CMD.EXE.
And there’s your problem:
You see, batch files have the ability to modify environment
variables and have the changes persist beyond
the end of the batch file.
Try it:


C> copy con marco.cmd
@set MARCO=polo
^Z
        1 file(s) copied.
C> echo %MARCO%
%MARCO%
C> marco
C> echo %MARCO%
polo


If your new command shell defers to CMD.EXE,
these environment changes won’t propagate back to your command
shell since the batch file modifies the environment variables
of CMD.EXE, not your shell.
Many organizations have a system of batch files that
rely on the ability to pass parameters
between scripts by stashing them into environment variables.
The DDK’s own razzle
does this, for example, in order to establish a consistent build
environment and pass information to build.exe
about what kind of build you’re making.
And I bet you have a batch file or two that sets your PROMPT
or PATH environment variable or changes your current
directory.


So good luck with your replacement command shell.
I hope you figure out how to run batch files.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

