


	
        Raymond's excursions into East Asian pop music, episode 3: Morning Musume (モーニング娘)          Raymond Chen        
            
            September 13th, 20060 0
		
        It really all started with  Katamari Damacy (塊魂). The music for that game is so darned infectious, and it was my fascination with that music that prompted my colleague to loan me the CDs his wife bought while she traveled through Asia. I already mentioned  China Dolls (中國娃娃). Another of the CDs in the collection was  4th Ikimasshoi! (4th いきまっしょい! = 4th Let’s Go!), the um fourth album from the J-Pop group  Morning Musume (モーニング娘 = Morning Girls). I’m sure somebody will correct my Japanese translation.
 Yes, these are the girls who in the United States are probably known only for  having pork chops tied to their foreheads while being stalked by a lizard or  being chased by American fighter Bob Sapp or  being freaked out by a clip from the movie The Ring or  traumatizing one of its members by dressing her up like a seal and making her hang out at the polar bear tank. From what I can gather, they aren’t so much a pop music group as a marketing phenomenon, what with their own television show and endorsement contracts. And yes, it’s a singing group with thirteen members. Thirteen. When I first glanced at the album cover, I just assumed that it was the same four or five singers dressed up in different costumes, but no, it really is a group with a ridiculous number of members.
 Their music is bubble-gum J-Pop, often  catchy, but sometimes just plain  awful. (And sometimes  really awful or  horrifically I-can’t-even-watch-it awful.) But I found at least the catchy tunes useful, because they’re energetic and kept me going on longer bicycle rides. It probably helped that I didn’t understand the words, though I strongly suspect  they’re singing about love. (I also find that even the catchy songs tend to be ruined by the videos.)
 Setting aside the musical merits, I have to admire the logistics of organizing a performance of such a large group. Compare, for example,  this music video for Osaka Koi no Uta (大阪 恋の歌 = Osaka Love Song) with a  live performance of same. In the music video, you can just cut from one vocalist to the next, but in the live performance, the singers have to physically trade places. It’s so complicated that some dedicated fans have  color-coded the lyrics to keep track of who sings what.
 Another of my colleagues more tuned into the contemporary music scene learned of my fascination with Japanese pop music and dedicated himself to finding some good Japanese pop music, just to show me that it’s not all bubble-gum. More on that in the next episode. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Excursions into East Asian pop music Non-Computer
	

