


	
        Maybe you don't sound like Carl Kasell, but you can have his job          Raymond Chen        
            
            April 18th, 20060 0
		
         According to the wonderful  Mixed Signals,  the Corporation for Public Broadcasting is searching for radio hosts. They’re calling it “American Idol for public radio”. 
 I recently stumbled across Mixed Signals and was instantly hooked. Some of my recent favorites: 

  Mike Pesca reports from South Dakota on the simple frugality of the state capitol building. 
  An executive order establishing the order of succession in the case the Archivist of the United States and the Deputy Archivist of the United States are both unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Archivist. 
  Mike Pesca runs afoul of some park rangers at Mount Rushmore. For some reason, Mike Pesca has the perfect voice for this type of stuff. He always sounds slightly annoyed and a bit condescending. 
  An insurance company withdraws coverage from an animal charity because their building is too close to a luxury apartment building whose only famous residents are “a couple of lingerie models”. (There is even a response from the insurance company that didn’t really seem to explain much.) 
  Riding elevators in order to secure press credentials because security regulations prohibit forming a line. 
  Mike Pesca again (sense a pattern?) sets the record straight on GMU’s surprise performance in the NCAA men’s basketball tournament. 
 One last Mike Pesca story:  This (somewhat misguided) essay on Iceland’s lack of success at… um… ice sports.  Icelandic sits at the bottom of my list of Germanic languages to learn (but at least it’s doing better than Danish, which doesn’t make the list at all). 

 The curatorship of Mixed Signals appears to change hands rather frequently. The last few entries I linked above were from  Robert Smith, whom I had the pleasure to meet at KUOW studios when he was stationed in Seattle. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

