


	
        The wisdom of seventh graders: What to do with a time machine (part 2)          Raymond Chen        
            
            December 5th, 20060 0
		
        (Make sure you’ve read  Part 1 for background information.)
 On the subject of where they would go in a time machine, many students wrote well-thought-out essays, beautifully composed.
 These sentences below did not come from those essays.
 I’ve categorized the snippets roughly by theme, though I had to guess at some of them since the sentences are taken out of context. (In a futile attempt to assist non-native speakers, I have glossed some of the trickier parts. I’ve also added editorial comments in italics.)
 Introductions

I would be honored to          trie the time machine 
I am highly regarded to be selected to     engorge this experimental journey. 
At the          crack of noon, we will begin our mission. 

 Personal History: These are essays from students who would     travel to their own past.

In 5th grade you are at the top of the school,     and you feel the power          over come you. 
Now, if we fall asleep in class we get in trouble.     But in kindergarten if we didn’t fall asleep we would get in trouble. 
She would work in little     orchids picking fruit for her family. 
I have 4 things in my life.     Soccer, family, God, and school. In that order. 
If I could find a way to impel paranormal powers     to ignite in ones body          enableing     them to do incredible feats,     I would be ecstatic to the point of bliss.     (This same student wanted Jesus to teach him how     to walk on water.     This student also wanted control over magnetism.     I think he needs to lay off the          X-Men comics for a while.) 

 The Middle Ages: The students recently studied the Middle Ages, which helps to explain why so many of them chose to go there. 

And at that time in history,     everything was changing     either for the good or the bad.     (Whoa there, let’s not say anything too controversial now.) 
In Europe during the 1700’s there were 5 sections in the social class:     1=Monarchs, 2=Lords & Nobles, 3=knights,     4=pheasants.     (What happened to number five?) 
I find Middle Aged Europe very stimulating. 
France is near water so I will feel more at home. 
We have recently     disgust the Middle Ages.  
King Arthur may have won some battles without the use of fiction. 
In 1550 I would choose to go to Spain because nobody really lived in     N. American then. 
I would learn a lot     gong     to the     Midieval times.     I would even come back and write     and essay about it! 
I’d have benefit in watching a mock battle     between two knights on horseback with lances.     (I may be wrong, but I think the battles in the Middle Ages     were for real.) 
It was sick and     grusm but really a thing to remember. 
And I would go to     Britan because Britan was     populare back in 1616. 

 United States(?) History 

Also, to investigate how the family worked [in Pilgrim times],     to see if they fought less because they had no appliances to fight over. 
If I could go anywhere I would choose Boston, England. 
I want to see what happened when Ben Franklin flew his kite in the rain.     For this reason I would go to England. 
Though War is Hell, I still would be anxious to see a real one.     (Try watching the evening news.) 
I wish the          great depression, but it did.     (Even after you fill in the missing words, it’s still funny.) 
Because California is a very interesting and mindblowing city. 
In 1961 everything including life was simple. 
Hopefully the president at their time isn’t an idiot and     stops the first power plant ever built. 
I want to     se     the Great     Babino Babe     Bruth. 
Besides the     Stealer     fans nobody like the Stealers. 
It was like a family     runnun at disneyland. 

 I’ll stop here before I runnun too much. We’ll learn more about seventh graders and time machines in the next installment. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer The wisdom of seventh graders
	

