


	
        News flash: Professional athletes do it for the money          Raymond Chen        
            
            February 16th, 20070 0
		
        This weekend is  NBA All-Star Weekend 2007, because just having a game isn’t enough; you need to make it a weekend-long festival.
 Tyrus Thomas, invited to paricipate in the slam dunk contest, which comes with a top prize of $35,000, was quoted as saying
 I’m just going to go out there, get my check and call it a day. … I’m just into the free money. That’s it. I’ll just do whatever when I get out there. 
 And yet, there was a huge uproar over the shocking revelation that (news flash!) professional athletes are in it for the money. Thomas was fined $10,000 by his team for his remarks—rather ironic that the way to teach him that it’s not about the money is to impose a monetary penalty—and  issued an apology some days later:
 I truly feel honored to be invited to participate in this year’s slam dunk contest during next week’s NBA All-Star Weekend in Las Vegas. The opportunity to represent the Bulls and the city of Chicago on a global stage is a privilege that I do not take lightly. I regret the extent to which my comments indicate otherwise. 
 He explained that “it was a miscommunication and understanding of words.” Huh? Under what possible rules of interpretation was “I’m just into the free money” intended to be understood as “The opportunity to appear on a global stage is a privilege that I do not take lightly”?
 Only a Game‘s Bill Littlefield  took up the matter in his Weekly Warm-up podcast. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged News flash Non-Computer
	

