


	
        The early days of the Microsoft cafeterias          Raymond Chen        
            
            October 5th, 20070 0
		
        A tour of Redmond campus cafeterias back in the old days took much less time than  it would require nowadays. Back then, the cafeterias were tiny affairs, the size of maybe three offices not counting the prep area, with a seating capacity of maybe a dozen tables. Each cafeteria had a theme, so going to lunch back in the day was not “Let’s go to the nearby mega-cafeteria and decide what we’ll have.” It was “Let’s decide what we’ll have, and then go to the mini-cafeteria that is serving it.”
 Here are the cafeterias on campus back in  The Before Time, along with their specialties:

Building 1: Lite Bite.     Low-calorie and vegetarian food. 
Building 4: Wild Pizza.     Pizza, a hot entree, and sandwiches made to order. 
Building 5: Burger Bar.     The grill, and home of the famous Blibbet Burger. 
Building 8: American Fare.     Traditional American food for the meat-and-potatoes kind of guy. 
Building 9: International Cuisine.     A different featured country every week. 
Building 10: American Fare.     Traditional American food for the meat-and-potatoes kind of guy. 

 All cafeterias had a salad bar, and the cafeterias in buildings 8 through 10 were extra large: In addition to the featured theme, they also had a grill and made sandwiches to order. (It was like three cafeterias in one!)
 I myself have never even seen a Blibbet Burger, much less eaten one.  Larry Osterman has some Blibbet memories, and  Adam Barr has more cafeteria memories. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

