


	
        Death at a Funeral, Cashback, and Tell No One          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 4th, 20070 0
		
        Another installment in Raymond’s short reviews of SIFF movies he’s seen recently.
   Death at a Funeral: The family funeral gets off to a bad start when the funeral home delivers the wrong body, and it’s the only mishap that actually gets fixed without further incident. Everything else goes horribly wrong, and then when you thought it couldn’t get any worse, it gets worse. Hilarious if you’re willing to laugh at uncomfortable situations, a disaster spiraling out of control, men behaving badly, gross-out humor, accidental consumption of hallucinogens, an old man with a filthy mouth, and lots of other stuff that will earn you an R rating. I give it a 4 out of 5.
   Cashback, a full-length version of the  2006 Academy-Award-nominated short of the same name: Everybody who has worked an hourly job knows that staring at the clock just makes time feel like it’s standing still. Ben manages to turn this feeling into reality while working the night shift at a grocery store, giving him opportunities to escape from his crazy boss, his even crazier coworkers, and to pine after the cute cashier girl. A very sweet story lurks behind the insanity. I give it a 4 out of 5.
   Tell No One: A man becomes a suspect for the murder of his wife eight years earlier. The opening of the movie is uncomfortably tense because you know the wife is going to die and it’s just a matter of waiting for it to happen. The screws slowly tighten on Alexandre Beck until he finds himself running for his life. And, believe or not, that’s when the tension eases up. (Thankfully, in my case. I don’t handle suspense well.) There are some funny moments during his period in hiding, trying to figure out what’s really going on, and the tension actually drops as more and more pieces of the puzzle start to emerge. I was kind of disappointed, however, by the ending, (spoiler: highlight with mouse to read)  which is a pretty standard “hero held a gunpoint while the villain explains everything that happened”. There’s a little twist, but not enough to vindicate it. Even so, I give it a 3 out of 5.
 Legend: 


  
Would pay money to see again by myself.


  
Would see again if it were free or if seeing it with others.


  
Would recommend to others.


  
Okay, but wouldn’t recommend to someone not already interested.


  
Would advise against.


  
Waste of my time.


 Note: The rating scheme has been revised since this article was originally posted. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

