


	
        In Windows XP, even when DEP is on, it's still sometimes off          Raymond Chen        
            
            November 16th, 20070 0
		
        

As we saw last time,
there are a variety of ways you can control DEP,
one of which is to turn it on for all system processes.
But even if you turn on DEP, it still sometimes turns itself off
temporarily.
It goes back to those bad versions of ATL.


The application compatibility team found that
there were so many programs written with application frameworks
that were not DEP-compatible (ATL mostly, but a few others)
that nobody would actually enable DEP because the odds were close
to 100% that there would be some program on the system that was
not DEP-ready.
Even DEP-fan Leo Davidson

runs a couple of programs that don’t work with DEP enabled.
And

it takes only one program to foul an upgrade.


When the kernel encounters a DEP exception,
it checks whether thunk emulation is enabled,
and if so (which it usually is),
it checks whether the code sequence is
one of the “well-known DEP-violating thunks”.
If so, then it simulates the actions the thunks would have performed
and resumes execution instead of raising the exception.
For example, if thunk emulation is enabled and you just took a
DEP exception on the code sequence


mov ecx, 12345678
jmp 43218765


the kernel thunk emulator will perform the moral equivalent of


pContext->Ecx = 0x12345678;
pContext->Eip = 0x43218765;
return EXCEPTION_CONTINUE_EXECUTION;


You can mark your program as
“I am so okay with DEP that not only do I want you to enable it,
but I don’t even want you to do this thunk emulation stuff”
by setting the
IMAGE_DLLCHARACTERISTICS_NX_COMPAT
flag in your PE header.
(The Visual Studio linker uses the /NXCOMPAT
command line switch to set this flag.)

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

