


	
        Don't forget to pass the current directory along with the command line to your single-instance program          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 29th, 20070 0
		
        
If you make a single-instance program,
and somebody runs a second copy of the program and passes a command line,
the most common way
of handling this is to hand the command line to the first
copy of the program and let the first copy deal with it.
When you do this, don’t forget about the current directory.


If somebody passes a relative path to the second copy of the program,
that relative path needs to be resolved against the current directory
of the second program.
I’ve seen programs that fail to take this into account.
Instead, they pass the command line to the first copy of the program,
and the first copy resolves the relatives paths against its
current directory.


Allow me to give a concrete example.


C:\Directory1> start LitWare file1.lit
... runs LitWare with the file C:\Directory1\file1.lit ...
C:\Directory1> cd ..\Directory2
C:\Directory2> start LitWare file2.lit


What you expect to happen is that LitWare opens
the file C:\Directory2\file2.lit,
since the relative path file2.lit should be
resolved against the current directory, C:\Directory2.
Unfortunately, I see some programs◊ try
to open the file C:\Directory1\file2.lit
since they passed the command line to the first copy,
and the first copy then resolved the relative path file2.lit
against the current directory of the first copy,
namely C:\Directory1.


Result: “File not found error.”


Moral of the story:
Be mindful of the current directory when parsing the command line.
You can either have the second copy parse the command line
(and resolve the relative paths against its own current directory),
or you can pass the current directory to the first copy
(and resolve the relative paths against that directory).
Either works.
What doesn’t work is passing the relative paths to the first
copy and having the first copy resolve it against its own current
directory.


My workaround for dealing with
these programs is using the %CD% pseudo-variable.


C:\Directory2> start LitWare %CD%\file2.lit


The %CD% pseudo-variable

expands to the command prompt’s current directory.
(Don’t forget to enclose it in quotation marks if the path contains
a space.)


Nitpicker’s corner

◊Remember that the phrase “some programs” means
“some programs” and

Microsoft programs fall under the category of “programs”.☼


☼Yes, I’m using strange symbols as note markers.
My hope is that the

people who nitpick
over

my choice of note markers
will
get

so upset
that their heads will explode and they therefore will
be unable to nitpick further.
It appears that some people, on the other hand,
suffer from some medical condition that

disables the “fun” center of the brain.


[Update: Give IE6 a little font help.]

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

