


	
        Suggestion Box 3          Raymond Chen        
            
            May 23rd, 20070 0
		
        Post suggestions for future topics here instead of posting off-topic  comments. Note that the suggestion box is emptied and read periodically  so don’t be surprised if your suggestion vanishes. (Note also that I am  under no obligation to accept any suggestion.)
  Topics I are more inclined to cover:

Windows history (particularly the Windows 95 era).  
Windows user interface programming in Win32,      and shell programming in particular.  
General programming topics (selectively).  
Issues of general interest.  
My personal hobbies.  

  Topics I am not inclined to cover:

The blog software itself.      You can visit the      Community Server home page      and cruise their support forums.  
Internet Explorer.      You can try      the IE folks.  
Visual Studio. You can try one of the Visual Studio blogs.  
Managed code. This is not a .NET blog.      I do not work on .NET technologies.      As far as .NET is concerned, I’m just another programmer like you.      Occasionally I touch a .NET-related topic,      but I do not bring any expertise to the subject.  
Non-software Microsoft topics, such as product support policies,      marketing tactics, jobs and careers, legal issues.  
Microsoft software that isn’t Windows. (Exchange, Office, …)  
Windows topics outside user interface programming.      (Plug and Play, Terminal Services, Windows Messenger,      Outlook Express, SQL, IIS, remoting, SOA…)  
User interface programming in anything other than Win32.      (Because I know nothing about it.)  
Debugging a specific problem. (Not of general interest.)  
Predictions for the future. (What’s the title of this blog again?)  
Participation in Internet memes.  

  You can also    send feedback on Microsoft products directly to Microsoft.  All the feedback gets read,    even the death threats.
  Suggestions should be between two and four sentences in length.  As you can see, there are hundreds of them already,  so you have three seconds to get your point across.  Please also search the blog first  because your suggestion may have already been covered.  And remember, questions aren’t suggestions.
  Note the enormous topic backlog.  Consequently, the suggestion box has been closed temporarily and will  reopen once the existing backlog has cleared,  which I estimate will happen sometime in early 2010.  If your suggestion is that important, I’m sure you’ll remember  it when the suggestion box reopens.  

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Pages
	

