


	
        2007 mid-year link clearance          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 29th, 20070 0
		
        
A few random links that I’ve collected.


Das Holzfällerlied.
    The subtitles are from the original English version and do not
    match the German.
    (Lyrics here.)
    Even more impressive considering that the members of the Monty Python
    troupe don’t actually speak German!

The really early history of Windows.

Explainer answers the unanswered,
    a follow-up to
    
    the unanswered Explainer questions.

More than you probably wanted to know about the desktop heap.

There’s a time and place for casual writing and a time and place
    for formal writing.
    
    Some students haven’t figured out that
    classroom assignments fall into the latter category.
    Business schools have also taken notice.

Sacha Baron Cohen drops character and is interviewed as himself
    rather than as his Borat persona.

The IT Crowd,
    Channel 4’s riotously funny sitcom that brought you
    0118 999 881 999 119 7253.
    It’s actually quite easy to remember once you learn the jingle.

The Window Vista File Backup FAQ
    courtesy of
    
    The Filing Cabinet.

Now that you’ve gone to all the effort of writing a book,
    don’t be stingy when it comes to reviews.
    
    Shell out the $399 and order a custom glowing review.
    Money well-spent.

Whenever I visit the
    
    Metropolitan Museum of Art,
    I always make sure to pay a visit to
    
    Young Woman Drawing
    on the second floor.
    I think it’s my favorite work in the entire museum.

James P. Burke does a bit of detective work and discovers
    what drop shipping is.

Somebody seems to be taking the time to
    
    translate selected entries from blogs.msdn.com into Russian.

Microsoft’s secret plans – revealed.
    There’s still six months left in the year 2007.



And then the obligatory plug for my column in

TechNet Magazine:


A “Mixed” Blessing.
    It starts out with what for regular readers of this web site is
    merely review,
    but that’s just to set up for the second half.

Looking Smart by Being Stupid.
    Again, it starts out with a rehash of what many of you already know,
    but the second half introduces new material.

The Power of Bugs. (Suggestions for a better title welcome.)
    The mysterious “Disable Synchronous Buffer Commits” setting.

Determining What Is Frequently Used,
    the TechNetification of the first half of the Start menu series.

What New Users See on the Start Menu,
    the second half of the Start menu series in TechNet form.



        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

