


	
        What do the colors in the elevation dialog mean?          Raymond Chen        
            
            March 30th, 20070 0
		
        On Windows Vista with  User Account Control enabled, when you right-click a program and select Run as Administrator, the elevation prompt contains a particular snippet of warning text and a corresponding color-coding. Here are what the four colors mean.


     Windows needs your permission to continue



A blue-green banner indicates that the program is a     Windows operating system component. Remain calm.


     A program needs your permission to continue



A gray banner indicates that the program     has been signed but is not part of Windows. Be cautious.


     An unidentified program wants access to your computer



A yellow banner indicates that the program’s     identity cannot be digitally confirmed.     Be suspicious.


     This program has been blocked



A red banner indicates that the program     has been blocked from running.     Run away.


 You can learn about the philosophy behind UAC in  this Channel9 interview.
 Pre-emptive snarky comment: “UAC sucks!”
 The purpose of this entry is not to discuss whether UAC is a good idea or not. I’m just trying to help by providing information on what the colors mean. This is one of the entries that I was afraid to write. On its own, it’s useful information, but I anticipate a torrent of nasty comments from people who see it as an opportunity to start flaming. I have other tips and stories related to controversial topics; this is a trial balloon entry. If I get a bad experience from this entry, I’ll delete the others. Just like how I  deleted all my stories about Bob.
 Update: Okay, just to make it clear (since I’m told that people don’t read other comments before posting their own). I did not work on UAC. If you ask me a question about its design or how it works, the answer will be “I don’t know.” That’s why I included a link to a talk from the people who actually know something about it. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Tips/Support
	

