


	
        Email tip: Choose a subject line that is meaningful to the recipient, not to the sender          Raymond Chen        
            
            January 18th, 20070 0
		
        Presumably you want the recipient to read the message. That’s why you sent it. It would behoove you to select a subject line which conveys to your reader the purpose of your message. Otherwise your reader is likely to ignore it for being too vague and uninteresting.
 Here are some actual bad subject lines I’ve seen.

Customer question 
Question about Windows XP 
New question 
Help needed 
Any help will be most appreciated 
SR#314159276358 
A tough problem! 
Some questions on Windows 
Urgent: Query regarding Windows 
Request for information – URGENT!! 
URGENT URGENT URGENT 

 Suppose your Inbox had a hundred messages that all looked like this. Would you bother reading even one of them?
 I’m sure the subject line makes perfect sense to the person who sent the message. They have only one customer with a question, so “Question from my customer” captures the issue perfectly. But if you send this message to a list with 500 members, those other 499 people most likely will not know what your message is about based solely on the subject line.
 A good subject line would include enough information about the question so that the recipient can decide whether to read further or whether it’s something they can’t help with. For example, “Question about generics,” or even better, “Question about covariant types in generics.”
 Remember, choose a subject line that is meaningful to the person you’re sending it to. It’s only polite. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged email Non-Computer
	

