


	
        Typo patrol at the 2008 PDC          Raymond Chen        
            
            October 28th, 20080 0
		
         Typo patrol got off to a very quick start. One of the flyers in the attendee goodie bag is from a company which offers two free months of service to PDC attendees. The first step in obtaining the service is “Just signup and mention the PDC by January 31, 2008.”
 Okay, just hang on while I fire up my time machine. 
 Bonus grammar typo: signup is a noun; sign up is a verb. 
 The second typo is kind of important. In all the PDC documents (including the voucher to pick up your attendee goodie bag), it says to go to Kentia Hall. This is incorrect. If you try, you’ll find a locked door. The goodie bags (and all other Kentia-related services) are actually in Parking B, which is next to the south entrance to Kentia Hall. 
 Other PDC 2008 notes: 

The badge colors are          the same as they were in 2005. 
My talk is scheduled for Wednesday at 3:00pm in room 406A.     I will be available in the Windows 7 lounge after the talk,     where I will remain untl Ask the Experts begins,     at which point I will move to the Windows 7 Ask the Experts table.     I will also be in the lounge on Thursday morning until noon.     And if you see me wandering around the PDC or just sitting at a table     pretendng to do work, feel free to come up and introduce yourself.     You’re not interrupting anything.     (If I didn’t want to be interrupted, I wouldn’t be out on the floor!) 
I stopped by the     Geeks with Blogs booth     since I subscribe to their master feed just to see what everybody     is chattering about. 
In the Speaker Prep room, there’s a monitor showing real-time     speaker feedback statistics as the results are counted,     complete with trend lines (ooh, everybody loves Anders)     and attendee comments (uh-oh, technical problems with Bob’s talk     really hurt him).     It’s oddly fascinating for about 30 seconds. 
It may be due to language problems, it may be due to poor     training, or it could just be laziness,     but Microsoft’s attempt to reduce the environmental impact     of the conference has not been a rousing success when it comes     to waste diversion:     The compost bins are littered with glass and plastic waste.     Glass bottles, plastic bottles, and milk cartons go     into the container recycling bin;     plastic waste goes into the trash.     We’ve been doing this in Redmond for quite some time,     so it’s frustrating seeing people get it wrong and spoiling     the entire batch. 
I learned of a new species of animal:     The Overflow Room Vulture.     These are people who don’t decide ahead of time what talks     they will attend,     but rather hang around near the overflow rooms     and attend whatever talk shows up there.     The theory is that if a talk overflows,     it must be pretty good!     (Of course, this assumption is not always correct.     Talks which the organizers know are going to be popular     are assigned larger rooms.     An overflow indicates that demand was higher than expected;     it’s a relative measure, not an absolute one.) 


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

