


	
        Microspeak: On-board (verb)          Raymond Chen        
            
            May 22nd, 20080 0
		
        Here are a few citations.  On a list of activities:


On-board a new team member. 


 Presumably they mean bring on board. What makes this particularly interesting is that they didn’t convert a noun to a verb; they converted a prepositional phrase to a verb, demonstrating once again the malleability of the English language.
 Here’s a snippet from a blog post which seems to use the same meaning, but dispensing with the hyphen:
 Over the past 4 weeks, we have been  onboarding customers slowly. 
 On the other hand, there are usages whose intended meaning I can’t quite figure out. Some titles from documents I don’t have access to:
 How to On-Board Tools on the Extranet On-Boarding Kit 
 And a subsection from an old document:
  On-Board Schedule 


Milestone
Target Date
Status


Attend a client planning meeting
Dec. 2005
Complete


Frooble analysis

Meeting daily with ABC team     to map out migration


On-Board to client dev
Feb. 2006



Client dev
TBD



On-Board to client test
TBD



Client test complete
TBD



On-Board to DEF
TBD



DEF sign-off by GHI
TBD



File migration
TBD



Go-Live
TBD




 ABC, DEF, and GHI were TLAs I did not understand. Frooble is a made-up word substituting for the actual word in the schedule. (And yes, “Go-Live” is a noun.)
 As a final example, there is somebody at Microsoft whose official job title is Senior Onboarding Manager.
 If you can figure out what on-board means, you’re smarter than me.
 Pre-emptive clever comment:  Verbing  weirds  language. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Microspeak Non-Computer
	

