


	
        König Drosselbart: Performed in clay, feathers, and other strange materials          Raymond Chen        
            
            May 20th, 20080 0
		
        This past weekend I went to the  Seattle International Children’s Festival to attended a performance of  König Drosselbart in German. I was not familiar with  the story beforehand, but that’s okay. It just makes for a better surprise.
 The interpretation was very creative. The narrators embodied the characters in the story at times; other times characters were represented by props manufactured on the spot from clay, decorated with feathers and twigs. (With one exception: The princess was represented by  a well-known doll.)
 The most amusing parts were when both techniques were used simultaneously: For example, at one point in the story, the princess was being particularly difficult. One narrator said “She sat down” as he placed the doll representing the princess on the table in a sitting position. The other narrator (embodying the pouty princess) placed the doll flat on her back just to be contrary.
 The first narrator corrected himself. “The princess lay down.”
 The other narrator made the doll sit up again.
 “Sat down.”
 On her back.
 “Lay down.”
 Sitting up.
 “Did some exercise.”
 If you know your  Aarne-Thompson classification of fairy tales, the story of König Drosselbart is  story type number 900. If you go to a folklore convention, you can just say “Number 900!” and people will say, “Ah, that’s a good one” or “Yeah, I’m not a big fan of that.”
 Or they may just look at you in disgust and say, “You told that story so badly.”
 It’s all in the delivery. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

