


	
        Why does the Explorer address bar reset itself while you’re typing into it?          Raymond Chen        
            
            December 15th, 20080 0
		
        When you ask Explorer to navigate to a new location, the steps go roughly like this (vastly oversimplified):

User initiates a navigation. 
Explorer puts up the “busy” animation and     starts looking for the location you navigated to. 
When the location is found, the contents of the folder are switched     to the new location and the address bar is updated to reflect     that new location. 

 Pretty straightforward, right? Well, commenter dhiren  asks: 
 Any idea why the address bar in Explorer randomly decides to reset itself while you’re typing in it? 
 It’s not like Explorer is saying, “Ha, ha! Sucker!” Explorer is just doing its thing, following its happy little checklist, and when it finally locates the navigation target, it moves on to step three and switches the view and synchronizes the address bar to match the view. 
 If you’ve messed with the address bar in the meantime, the synchronization of the address bar with the folder contents overwrites the changes you were in the process of making. This isn’t an intentional “let’s make the user’s life miserable”; it’s just a consequence of the simple checklist. 
 Now, yes, it is an annoyance, and yes, it’s a bug, but it’s not a bug in the sense that somebody wrote code that failed to implement the specification; rather the bug is due to an oversight in the specification itself. This is  another example of how things can get extremely complicated even though the basic idea is very simple: Once you have the simple idea working, everybody finds random special cases that force you to take your simple idea and make it more and more complicated. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

