


	
        The dangers of setting your double-click speed too short          Raymond Chen        
            
            October 2nd, 20080 0
		
        After I noted how  the window manager uses the double-click time as a basis for determining how good your reflexes are, people got all excited about  reducing the double-click speed to make Windows feel peppier. But be careful not to go overboard.
 Back in the Windows 95 days, we got a bug from a beta tester that went roughly like this: 
  Title: Double-clicks stop working after using mouse control panel Reproducibility: Consistent, hardware-independent Severity: Major loss of functionality Description: 

Open the mouse control panel. 
Go to the Double-click speed slider. 
Drag the slider all the way to the right (fastest). 
Click OK. 

 Result: Mouse double-clicks no longer recognized. 

 We had to explain to the beta tester that, no, everything is actually working as intended. But if you set the double-click slider to the fastest setting, you had better be good at double-clicking really fast. You have clearly set the double-click speed was faster than you are physically capable of double-clicking. Maybe you can ask your twelve-year-old nephew to do your double-clicking for you. 
 That’s why there is the test icon next to the slider. Before clicking OK, make sure you can still double-click the test icon. If you can’t, then you picked a setting that’s too fast for your reflexes and you should consider a slower setting. 
 Pre-emptive Yuhong Bao comment: In Windows 95, the test icon was a jack-in-the-box. 
 [Raymond is currently away; this message was pre-recorded.] 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Tips/Support
	

