


	
        Reading the error message carefully can help you see how the computer misinterpreted what you typed          Raymond Chen        
            
            September 4th, 20090 0
		
        
The details have been changed since they aren’t important
but the lesson is the same.


A customer had the following problem with a command-line tool:



I’ve created a taglist but I can’t seem to get it to work
with the track command.
When I ask it to track the taglist, it can’t find it.
But if I ask for all my taglists, there it is.


C:\> show taglists
You have 2 taglists:
 active (8 tags)
 closed (6 tags)
C:\> track active
No such tag "active".



Yes, the track command isn’t working,
but let’s take a closer look at that error message.
It says no such tag.
Strange, because you are trying to track a taglist, not a tag.
Shouldn’t the error message be
no such taglist?


Aha, the problem is that the track command takes
a list of tags on the command line, not a taglist name.
The error message is correct:
There is no such tag called active.
Because active isn’t a tag name;
it’s a taglist name.


C:\> track -taglist active
Taglist "active" is now being tracked.


Today’s lesson:
Look carefully at what the error message complaining about;
it may not be what you expect.


Exercise:
Diagnose the following error message, given no information
about the program being used beyond what is presented here:



I accidentally made a change (transaction number 12345)
to the file XYZ,
and I want to back it out.
But when I run the backout command, I get an error.
Can somebody help me?


C:\> backout 12345
12345 - file not found



        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

