


	
        The wisdom of sev^H^H^Heighth graders: What it means to be an adult          Raymond Chen        
            
            August 12th, 20090 0
		
        Since I’m obviously a glutton for punishment, I also helped read eighth grade essays on the same topic: Describe the qualities you consider to be those which make someone an adult. As always, remember that these are just the funny sentences/excerpts.
 Let me tell you about my parents 

My dad looks older for one reason because he has facial hair. 
[My father] doesn’t look young and muscular like most teens do. 
Some people are just plain dumb, but not my dad. 
My dad works at his extremely boring Job every day. 
If you slack on your work and     lagger     behind     you won’t have a good image when people think of you.     Fortunately, my dad has covered this quality.     Your dad is a slacker? 
He is a photographer so he has to work with a lot of people.     Alot     of those people are ignorant and stuffy politicians. 
My dad goes down to Seattle practically every day     and does stuff I’m not totally sure about but he’s a lawyer. 
My dad is an adult because [he] makes a budget     so he can pay the bills on time,     so we can keep our house and not get our car     toed.     It’s called          wheel alignment, and toeing is a good thing. 
My dad is an adult partly because he     mad     it through     highschool     and     collage.     I wonder whether he majored in anger management. 
My Dad… !! yayz! 
Three children and a wife can be a real hassle,     some people can’t even handle one. 
[Dad] recently had this mid life crisis I believe,     he went kind of crazy and bought all this equipment for making music.     He made his songs, and then kinda transitioned back to normal. 
He has engendered a family. 
In all     te     be considered an adult you have to be at or over 18.     And I assure you my mom is well over 18. 
College also gave her [my mother] a social experience.     This is important because it gave her a dose of     adultery.     Does your father know this? 
My mom is always my home skillet biscuit.     Fo’ shizzle. 
This means that my mom can drive and drink     both things together only an adult can do.     I take it your mom isn’t     a member of MADD. 

 Entering a no fun zone 

Being immature is like acting like a monkey     or making fart noises with your mouth. 
[Adults should be] even keel     (that means they don’t go completely berserk if they don’t get dessert) 
You can’t          slackoff     like you did in middle school. 
No grownup is lazy. 
No more being babied by mommy. 
Movies: OK.               Teaping: Not OK. 
When adults do work like working in the yard,     they can go for hours on end!! Meanwhile we’re in school going insane! 
Hitting isn’t going to solve anything     because it’s just going to get you     sewed     and thrown into the big house.     As ye sew so shall ye rip. 
Jobs can be stressful, boring, and horrible     especially if you don’t like your job. 
Her job brings in a     luxurient     amount of money. 
People who still live with their parents     when they’re 30 years old are not really adults. 
Go out get a job get a house and start a family.     Don’t wait or your gonna end up living with your parents! 

 It’s harder than I thought 

Emotions make yourself weak and in life only the strong remain. 
I consider one person to be an adult.     Wow, pretty exclusive club. 
To be a great adult you should try to resemble Jerry Seinfeld.     Is that the one person? 
When I think of the word adult, I think of people like my Dad,     my Mom, my teachers, and random parents I know.     Like, a lottery? 
A adult should have a decent car like     a     shiney     Corvette with     shiney     wheels. 
Being grown up is very rare and you might only see it     a few times in your life. […]     Being [an adult] requires “the look.”     When you look into an adult’s eyes and see wariness, regret,     stern impassiveness, but most of all, intelligence. 
Believe in your yes and the Believing will make it happen,     make you a good leader.     Okay, you lost me at the “Believe in your yes” part. 
You need to be social to have friends and have fun as an adult.     Instead of “cowering” in a dark corner of your high school reunion. 
You can     dive     to and from work. 
You have to pay the     morgue. 
… independent, responsible, and always goes beyond what     he can do.     He takes on more than he can handle? 

 Tautology corner 

An easy way to tell if someone’s an adult is to see how mature they are. 
When you are a child, you have just about no maturity. 
There are numerous reasons why I believe     the starting of college is the point you enter college. 

 Assorted commentary 

Finally, you have to be patient as an adult,     because you might have kids you might not,     but they are always everywhere. 
Parents are adults, clowns are adults,     the ice cream man is an adult, most teachers are adults,     and even teachers are adults….     Adults seem to be completely ubiquitous.     About as ubiquitous as children, apparently. 
I think that every adult should have a job that gives     descent     money.     How about moral decay money? Can I get that, too? 
When teenagers think “adult”     most picture a grown up human being that can vote and     drink alcohol until they puke.     I’m having second thoughts on that moral decay money. 
Most adults fly off the handle at kids who are obnoxious or     at their stupid boss at their stupid work.     Having issues, are we? 
It would be hard to live in a world with immature adults.     Yet somehow we manage. 
… kids can get away with mistakes,     because they’re seen as little dogs who don’t know any better. 
I’d like to live a low-stress life     for a few more years before society demands my presence.     Enjoy your doghood for a little while longer. 
If I am angry at someone or something,     she is always by my side ready to fight.     Is this an adult or an anime character? 
Without responsibilities, adults would be just like kids but much taller. 
Some people have all the experience in the world,     but they have never     analized     it.     Anal-ization
 sounds painful. 
Do you want to know what an adult is?     Well, I hope so, ‘Cause you’re about to find out! 
Now we’re getting off topic so let’s wrap this up. 
There are     probly     more things to being an adult     but what do I know I just trying to get     passed     8th grade. 

 Misspelling corner. I’ve included more context; that may make the game a bit easier. 

She [Mom] also runs a house with no     hunban     on the weekdays. 
The thing I don’t like is the     chorse     that she makes me do. 
… doing     buiesness 24/7. 
The     Maturatity     of Friendship 
… a great person that     reflex     what a real adult should be like. 
You need     responsibleaty     to cope with the     basicks     of     every day     adulthood. 
There are also some     fisual     singhs     of adults. 
Thoughs     people have the maturity of an eighth grader. 
So the next generation has the     change     to become a     secseder     in life. 

 And just so you won’t think all eighth graders are terrible writers: 

The truth of it all is your house is the central gravitational force,     pulling bits of your life together. 


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer The wisdom of seventh graders
	

