


	
        Creating shortcuts in the same folder as the target isn’t as stupid as you may think          Raymond Chen        
            
            May 14th, 20090 0
		
        Commenter Mihai wonders, “Why would I want to keep the original file and the link in the same folder?”
 Dragging a file, and in particular right-dragging a file, is not easy for all people. There are  people with poor dexterity who have trouble with dragging; for them, right-dragging would be even worse. But even people with normal levels of dexterity have problems with dragging: Just put them in front of a Tablet PC. On a Tablet PC dragging with the fingertip can get tricky because your hand obscures the drag target, and most people don’t have very pointy fingers, so the precision of the drop is pretty poor. 
 There’s another group of users, much larger than Tablet PC users, which have trouble with drag and drop, and you are probably one of them: Laptop users with touchpads. Dragging with a touchpad is a very tricky proposition, particularly if you are dragging a long distance that exceeds the size of your touchpad. If you’re really clever, you might be able to multitouch the touchpad and let the second finger continue the drag, but at least in my experience this is not a particularly reliable mechanism for dragging long distances. Even if the mouse motion is continuous, you often get a spurious mouse-up event, which ends the drag prematurely. 
 For users for whom dragging is difficult, it’s much easier to create a shortcut in the same folder, and then move it to its final destination. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

