


	
        The Suggestion Box is for suggestions, that’s why it’s called a Suggestion Box          Raymond Chen        
            
            March 2nd, 20090 0
		
        As you may have noticed, Mondays are generally used for responding to suggestions posted to the Suggestion Box. But often people post things into the Suggestion Box that aren’t actually topic suggestions.
 Commenter Ulric decided to take up a slot in the suggestion box by pointing me to a funny video because he “couldn’t resist.” Actually, I was wrong about saying that it’s not a topic suggestion. The video itself is the topic, so there you have it. Though I think some people may need to do a little better at exercising self-restraint. 
 Commenter Yuhong Bao posted a series of entries to the suggestion box which seem to take the form of disconnected neuron activity. 
   re: Memory Management Trickes Us 
 That is probably AWE. 


  re: ACPI keys: most evil UI misfeature ever? 
 Before Windows XP, yes, but not anymore. 


  re: How much is Win9x DOS? 
 Well, first the DOS inside Win9x is started and then it starts win.com, which is a DOS application. Basically it is like Win3.1 in 386 enhanced mode which is also more like an OS than a DOS frontend. 

 There doesn’t appear to be anything  actionable here. It’s just random muttering. 
 Please use the suggestion box for suggestions. If you want to comment on an entry, then post a comment to that entry. If comments for that entry are closed, then post your comment on your own Web site. (And if you just enjoy hearing yourself talk, then do that on your own Web site, too.) 
 “But I want to comment on that entry even though comments are closed.” 
 Tough. Comments are closed. You had your chance. You don’t call a radio show and say, “Hi, I know your topic today is the world financial crisis, but I have a comment about car safety, which was a topic you covered last month.” 
 Maybe what this Web site needs is a call screener, like radio shows have. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

