


	
        When you have only 16KB of memory, you can’t afford to waste any of it on fluffy stuff          Raymond Chen        
            
            January 28th, 20090 0
		
        
The original IBM PC came with 16KB of memory.


That’s not a lot of space in which to squeeze an operating system,
especially since you had to leave enough memory for the user
to actually get work done.
A product of its time,
the MS-DOS kernel is written entirely in assembly language,
pretty much standard procedure for programs of the era.
It also meant that the code takes all sorts of crazy shortcuts
to shave a few bytes here, a few bytes there,
in order to squeeze into as little memory as possible.
For example, one very common trick was to have jump into
the middle of an instruction,
knowing that the second half of the instruction,
when reinterpreted as the start of an instruction,
performs the operation you wanted.


Anyway, this subject arose in response to my discussion of

why a corrupted program sometimes results in a “Program too big to fit
in memory” error,
which prompted the question from commenter 8 wondering

why the kernel didn’t simply reject .COM files bigger
than 64KB?


Well, yeah, and that’s what it did: By complaining that it was too big
to fit into memory.
There’s no point adding a redundant test.
(It appears that some people like to call these redundant tests


basic sanity checking, but I consider sanity checking to be
protecting against unreasonable values before they cause trouble.
But in this case, they don’t cause trouble—the error is
detected and reported even without the so-called sanity check.)


Consider:


bool SomeFunction(…)
{
 …
 if (x == 3) return false;
 if (x < 10) return false;
 …
}


The first test is redundant, because if x is three,
then even without the test, the function will still fail
because x is also less than ten.


And when you’re trying to squeeze your kernel into a few bytes as possible,
you’re certainly not going to waste your time coding up a redundant test.


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

