


	
        The way to stop people from copying files to a folder is to use NTFS security, not to block drag/drop          Raymond Chen        
            
            August 26th, 20090 0
		
        A customer wanted to prevent users from copying files to certain locations, and they did it by hooking functions like SHFileOperation and failing the operation if the parameters were not to its liking. The customer found that the hooks stopped working in Windows Vista because Explorer in Windows Vista uses the new IFileOperation COM interface instead of using the old SHFileOperation function. The customer wanted assistance in getting their hook working again so they could prevent users from copying files to directories they wanted to block.
 Well, first of all, arbitrary function hooking is not supported by any version of Windows, so the customer was already in unsupported territory right off the bat. (There are some components which have an infrastructure for hooks, such as  file system filter drivers or  Winsock Layered Service Providers.)
 Second, attempting to hook SHFileOperation to prevent the user from copying files into specific directories is looking at the problem at the wrong level, similar to the people who  want to block drag/drop when what they really want to block is accidental drag/drop. If you block copying files via drag/drop in Explorer, that won’t stop the user from copying files by other means, or by doing the “poor man’s copy” by opening the document from the source location and doing a Save As to create a duplicate in the destination.
 If you want to prevent the user from copying files to a directory, use the NTFS security model. Withhold Create files permission in the folder, and users will be blocked from copying files into the directory in Explorer, Notepad, or any other program.
 Related:  Shell policy is not the same as security. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Tips/Support
	

