


	
        Why doesn't my program receive the WM_DWMSENDICONICTHUMBNAIL message when I ask for an iconic representation?          Raymond Chen        
            
            February 5th, 20100 0
		
        
A customer was having trouble adding Windows 7 taskbar
integration features to their application:


I’m trying to use the new Windows 7 taskbar integration features,
but am running into a problem.
I’ve made certain that my program has the
DWMWA_FORCE_ICONIC_REPRESENTATION
and
DWMWA_HAS_ICONIC_BUTMAP
DWMWA_HAS_ICONIC_BITMAP [corrected 8am]
attributes set,
yet I never receive a WM_DWMSENDICONICTHUMBNAIL
message in my window procedure.


A member of the taskbar team invoked psychic powers:



Is your program running elevated by any chance?
If so, then you need to add the
WM_DWMSENDICONICTHUMBNAIL message
to your UIPI message filter:


ChangeWindowMessageFilter(WM_DWMSENDICONICTHUMBNAIL, MSGFLT_ADD);



Psychic powers once again save the day.


That was it. Thanks!


Note that forcing someone to invoke psychic powers is a bad thing.
It means that you withheld crucial information that somebody had to
guess at.
Here are some crucial pieces of information people tend to forget to
mention:


“Oh, did I mention that my process is running elevated?”
“Oh, did I mention that my process is a service?”
“Oh, did I mention that my process is 32-bit, running on a 64-bit machine?”
“Oh, did I mention that I initialized COM as MTA?”
“Oh, did I mention that my process is impersonating another user?”
“Oh, did I mention that I’m running a version of the operating
    system different from Windows 7?” (or whatever the most
    current client operating system is)


Added:
The reason those items above are crucial pieces of information is that
all of them (except the last one) are “game-changers”:
If you do any of the things in the list,
a whole bunch of rules change.
It’s like asking a question about traffic regulations and neglecting
to mention that the other vehicle
is a fire truck with its siren on.
(And presumably when you chose to invoke any of those game-changing
conditions, you were aware of the rules which applied to the new situation.
Those rules are documented with the game-changing condition,
not with the general description of a normally-functioning universe.
Imagine if every physics book had the sentence “This rule does not apply
to Superman” at the end of every paragraph.)

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

