


	
        Why are there two values for NoDriveTypeAutoRun which disable Autoplay on drives of unknown type?          Raymond Chen        
            
            April 15th, 20100 0
		
        

The Windows 2000 Resource Kit
described

the No­Drive­Type­Auto­Run policy
as consisting of a bitfield whose values are as follows:



Value
Meaning


0x1
Disables Autoplay on drives of unknown type.


0x4
Disables Autoplay on removable drives.

0x8
Disables Autoplay on fixed drives.


0x10
Disables Autoplay on network drives.


0x20
Disables Autoplay on CD-ROM drives.


0x40
Disables Autoplay on RAM drives.


0x80
Disables Autoplay on drives of unknown type.


0xFF
Disables Autoplay on all types of drives.



Hey, wait, two of the entries are the same.
What’s the difference between 0x1 (Disables Autoplay
on drives of unknown type)
and
0x80 (Disables Autoplay on drives of unknown type)?


The values in the bitfield correspond to return values
of the Get­Drive­Type function:


#define DRIVE_UNKNOWN     0
#define DRIVE_NO_ROOT_DIR 1
#define DRIVE_REMOVABLE   2
#define DRIVE_FIXED       3
#define DRIVE_REMOTE      4
#define DRIVE_CDROM       5
#define DRIVE_RAMDISK     6


The value 0x1 corresponds to bit zero, which means that
the Get­Drive­Type function could not tell what
type of drive it is.


On the other hand, the value 0x80 does not correspond to
any known return value of Get­Drive­Type.
It’s reserved for future use.


My guess as to how this happened is that the original table
did not have an entry for 0x80.
Then somebody asked,
“What does 0x80 mean?”


The response was,
“It’s not used yet.
It’s for some future unknown drive type that has yet to be invented.”


“Okay, thanks. I’ll just say that the drive type is unknown.”


Bingo, now you have two copies of “drives of unknown type.”
The 0x1 means “drives whose type cannot be determined”
whereas the 0x80 means
“drives of a type not currently known to mankind.”


So let’s just pretend that the entry for
0x80 reads “Reserved for future use.”
(The page is archived content, so it’s not like anybody’s
going to be updating it.)


Pre-emptive snarky comment:
“Autoplay is the stupidest feature on the face of the planet.”
The issue here is not discussing whether Autoplay is a good idea or
bad idea.
I’m trying to improve the documentation.
I try to avoid providing tips/support about
controversial features because of the

flame-fest that invariably results.
This is an experiment to see if it’s safe to go back into the water.


Update: Comments have been disabled because everybody wants to
discuss whether Autoplay is a good idea or not, even though that topic
was explicitly taken off the table.
Strike two.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Tips/Support
	

