


	
        Where did my mail control panel icon go?          Raymond Chen        
            
            September 29th, 20100 0
		
        A customer ran into the following problem:
 I was trying to add another email account to Outlook, and the instructions say that I should go to the mail icon in the Control Panel, which to my surprise is nowhere to be found! How can I figure out what went wrong? 
 A little bit of psychic debugging will solve this.
 The customer was running Windows Vista, 64-bit edition. On 64-bit versions of Windows XP and Windows Vista, the Control Panel shows only 64-bit control panels. The 32-bit control panels are off in a separate 32-bit control panel, which you can find by  clicking the View 32-bit Control Panel Items icon.
 The separation of 32-bit and 64-bit control panels is an unfortunate consequence of the rule that 64-bit processes cannot load 32-bit DLLs and vice versa. On 64-bit Windows, Explorer is a 64-bit process, which means that it can’t load traditional 32-bit control panels. (Recall that  control panel applications run as DLLs inside the host process.) Therefore, Explorer has to pass off the work of working with 32-bit control panel applications to a 32-bit alter ego process.
 Fortunately, Windows 7 no longer segregates control panel applications by bitness: They all appear in the main Control Panel. This was done by running a puppet 32-bit copy of the Control Panel behind the scenes and making the puppet do the main Control panel’s bidding whenever it needed to access information about 32-bit control panel applications.
 “Hey, go enumerate the 32-bit control panel applications for me.”
 “Hey, go get the icon for this 32-bit control panel application.”
 “Hey, go launch this 32-bit control panel application.”
 “Hey, go make me a sandwich.”
 “Hey, give me a backrub.” 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Tips/Support
	

