


	
        When you use a term, it helps if you know what the term means          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 9th, 20100 0
		
        Some years ago (in a project far, far away) I received a piece of email from a member of the release management team asking me if a particular issue met the  escrow reset  bug bar or not, as it applied to an upcoming pre-RTM release.
 I asked, “What is the current escrow reset bar?” I thought this was a fair question. After all, in order to state whether or not the issue met the escrow reset criteria, I needed to know what the escrow reset criteria were. I figured they’d reply with something like “The escrow reset criteria are on this internal Web page. Please evaluate the issue against those criteria and get back to us.”
 Instead, the response I got back was, “I’m not sure, let me check.”
 Some time later, I received the answer.
 There is no formal set of criteria. It’s taken on a case-by-case basis after discussion with the team responsible for the issue. 
 I thought it was interesting that, first, somebody asked me to evaluate an issue against criteria I was not provided with; second, the person asking the question didn’t know the criteria either; and third, it turns out that there were no criteria at all!
 According to their definition, the way to determine whether the issue met the escrow reset bar was to meet with the release management team themselves and let them make the call. In other words, they asked me to make a decision that only they could make.
 They decided not to hold a meeting to discuss the issue. I guess that means it didn’t meet the escrow reset bar. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

