


	
        How to change the debugger attached to a process          Raymond Chen        
            
            January 7th, 20100 0
		
        Suppose your application crashes and debugger X is automatically connected because that’s how the system happened to be configured. But you would prefer to use debugger Y. After installing debugger Y, how do you switch the debugger from X to Y? If you try to connect debugger Y to the process, you get the error code STATUS_PORT_ALREADY_SET, because only one debugger can be connected to a process at a time. But if you disconnect the old debugger, the application will disappear with it. How do you escape from this Catch-22?
 Here’s what you do.

Attach the ntsd debugger in non-invasive mode:     use -pv instead of -p when specifying the process id. 
The ntsd debugger will suspend all the threads in the process. 
Now tell debugger X to resume the process and detach from it.     (If debugger X is ntsd,     then the command for this is qd.) 
Next, tell debugger Y to attach to the process. 
Finally, go to the ntsd debugger which you attached in non-invasive mode,     and tell it to detach with the qd command. 

 This trick works because the non-invasive mode of debugging doesn’t actually connect to the process as a debugger. It merely suspends all the threads in the process and lets you snoop around its memory. As a result, when you disconnect the original debugger and tell it to resume execution of the application, the application doesn’t actually resume because the non-invasive ntsd is keeping it suspended. You then can attach the new debugger to the process and resume your debugging.
 In other words, the non-invasive ntsd acts as a bridge, holding the process frozen while one debugger gets out and another one comes in. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

