


	
        How the shell converts an icon location into an icon          Raymond Chen        
            
            May 5th, 20100 1
		
        
A customer had trouble getting an icon to display for a registered
file type.



In my resource file, I specify the icon like this:


101 ICON awesome.ico


And when I register my file type, I set it like this:


[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\.xyz\DefaultIcon]
@="C:\path\to\awesome.exe,101"


However, when I view an .xyz file,
my awesome icon doesn’t appear.
On the other hand, if I change the 101 to a 0,
then it works.
Why?
Isn’t the number in the resource file the resource ID?



Why yes, in fact, the number in the resource file is indeed
the resource ID.
But the number after the comma in the Default­Icon
isn’t.


The format of shell icon locations (used most visibly
by Default­Icon, but also used in other places)
is «file»,«index»,
where the index is a zero-based index of the icon in your
resources.
In other words,
an index of zero means “Give me the first icon in the file.”
The resource compiler sorts icons numerically by resource ID,
so the first icon in the file is the icon with the numerically
lowest resource ID.
In the above example, apparently there are no icons with resource IDs
less than 101;
that would explain why asking for icon index zero results in the awesome
icon.


The function behind all this icon hunting is Extract­Icon.
The icon location string is split up at the comma into a path and
an integer, and that path and integer are passed to the
Extract­Icon function.
Since the Extract­Icon
function interprets the integer
as the icon index, that’s what the integer in your icon location
string means.


In Windows 95, the
Extract­Icon function was enhanced
so that you could also specify an icon by its resource ID
by passing its negative as the icon index.
In other words, if you place a negative number after the comma,
then its absolute value is interpreted as the resource ID.


We learned some time ago that
there’s a hole in this model:
It doesn’t work if you want a resource ID of 1,
because

the value −1
has a special meaning to Extract­Icon:
Instead of extracting an icon, it tells you how many icons there are.


The workaround for this is actually straightforward,
and you should be able to figure it out on your own
based on information provided in this article.
How do you specify that you want the icon whose resource ID is 1?

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

