


	
        How can I find all objects of a particular type?          Raymond Chen        
            
            August 12th, 20100 0
		
        
More than one customer has asked a question like this:


I’m looking for a way to search for all instances of a particular
type at runtime.
My goal is to invoke a particular method on each of those instances.
Note that I did not create these object myself or have any other
access to them.
Is this possible?


Imagine what the world would be like if it were possible.


For starters, just imagine the fun you could have if you could
call typeof(Secure­String).Get­Instances().
Vegas road trip!


More generally, it breaks the semantics of App­Domain
boundaries,
since grabbing all instances of a type lets you get objects from
another App­Domain,
which fundamentally violates the point of App­Domains.
(Okay, you could repair this by saying that the Get­Instances
method only returns objects from the current App­Domain.)


This imaginary Get­Instances method might return
objects which are awaiting finalization,
which violates
one of the fundamental assumptions of a finalizer, namely that there
are no references to the object:
If there were, then it wouldn’t be finalized!
(Okay, you could repair this by saying that the Get­Instances
method does not return objects which are awaiting finalization.)


On top of that, you break

the syncRoot pattern.


class Sample {
 private object syncRoot = new object();
 public void Method() {
  lock(syncRoot) { ... };
 }
}

If it were possible to get all objects of a particular class,
then anybody could just reach in and grab your private sync­Root
and call Monitor.Enter() on it.
Congratuations, the private synchronization object you created
is now a public one that anybody can screw with,
defeating the whole purpose of having a private syncRoot.
You can no longer reason about your syncRoot because you are no longer
in full control of it.
(Yes, this can already be done with reflection, but at least when
reflecting, you know that you’re grabbing somebody’s private field
called sync­Root, so you already recognize that you’re
doing something dubious.
Whereas with
Get­Instances,
you don’t know what each of the returned objects is being used for.
Heck, you don’t even know if it’s being used!
It might just be garbage lying around waiting to be collected.)

More generally, code is often written on the expectation that
an object that you never give out a reference to is not accessible
to others.
Consider the following code fragment:


using (StreamWriter sr = new StreamWriter(fileName)) {
 sr.WriteLine("Hello");
}


If it were possible to get all objects of a particular class,
you may find that your customers report that they are getting an
Object­Disposed­Exception
on the call to Write­Line.
How is that possible?
The disposal doesn’t happen until the close-brace, right?
Is there a bug in the CLR where it’s disposing an object too soon?


Nope, what happened is that some other thread did exactly what the
customer was asking for a way to do:
It grabbed all existing Stream­Writer instances and
invoked Stream­Writer.Close on them.
It did this immediately after you constructed the Stream­Writer
and before you did your sr.Write­Line().
Result: When your sr.Write­Line() executes, it finds
that the stream was already closed, and therefore the write fails.


More generally, consider the graffiti you could inject into all output
files by doing


foreach (StreamWriter sr in typeof(StreamWriter).GetInstances()) {
 sr.Write("Kilroy was here!");
}


or even crazier


foreach (StringBuilder rb in typeof(StringBuilder).GetInstances()) {
 sb.Insert(0, "DROP TABLE users; --");
}


Now no String­Builder is safe—the contents of
any String­Builder can be corrupted at any time!


If you could obtain all instances of a type,
the fundamental logic behind computer programming breaks down.
It effectively becomes impossible to reason about code
because anything could happen to
your objects at any time.


If you need to be able to get all instances of a class,
you need to add that functionality to the class itself.
(GC­Handle or Weak­Reference will
come in handy here.)
Of course, if you do this, then you clearly opted into
the “anything can happen to your object at any time outside
your control” model and presumably your code operates accordingly.
You made your bed; now you get to lie in it.


(And I haven’t even touched on thread safety.)


Bonus reading:

Questionable value of SyncRoot on Collections.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

