


	
        The great thing about URL encodings is that there are so many to choose from          Raymond Chen        
            
            March 31st, 20100 0
		
        
The phrase URL encoding appears to mean different
things to different people.


First,

Tim Berners-Lee says
that URLs are encoded by using %xx to
encode “dangerous” characters, or to suppress
the special meaning that would normally be assigned
to characters such as / or ?.
For example, the URL
http://server/why%3F/?q=bother
is a request to the server server
with the path /why?/ and with
the query string q=bother.
Notice that by escaping the question mark,
we prevent it from being interpreted as the
start of the query portion of the URL.


Now, it so happens that when a form is submitted
via GET, then the contents of the form
are encoded (by default)
into the query according to a set of rules
laid out in

the HTML 4.01 specification:
The query string takes the basic form of
var=value&var=value&....
If a variable name or a value contains
a “dangerous” character or a special character
like = or &,
then it must be %-escaped.
For example,
co=AT%26T says that the variable co
has the value AT&T.
Encoding the ampersand prevents it from being interpreted
as a separator.


And here is the special additional rule that confuses
a lot of people:
When submitting a form via GET,
the form data is encoded into the query portion of a URL,
and under the default encoding,

the character U+0020 (space) is encoded as U+002B (plus sign).
This special use of the plus sign applies only to the query portion
of the URL.
Sometimes people get confused and think that

it applies to URLs in general.


Example:


http://example.com/embedded%20space.html?key=apple+pie#result%20panel


The base URL and fragment (colored in blue) use the %20
sequence to encode the embedded space, whereas the query
(colored in green) uses the plus sign.


You’d think that would be the end of the story,
but in fact it’s just the beginning,
because now we get to throw in all sorts of
nonstandard URL encoders.


The PHP function urlencode
treats the entire string as if it were a value (or variable name)
in a query string, encoding spaces as a plus sign and being careful
to escape all other punctuation.
Not to be confused with rawurlencode which encodes
everything (even characters like /).


JScript comes with a whole bucketload of functions for URL encoding.
There’s escape(), which encodes almost everything
but leaves the slash and—bafflingly—the plus sign
unencoded.
And then there’s the
encodeURI() function which leaves a few more
characters unencoded (including the colon (U+003A),
and question mark (U+003F)).
But wait, there’s also encodeURIComponent()
which goes to the effort of encoding slashes too.
It’s a total mess,
but

this site tries to make some sense out of the whole thing.

The ASP.Net function

Server.UrlEncode
behaves the same way as the PHP urlencode function.


There are probably a dozen other functions which purport to perform
some form of URL encoding.
You have to read the documentation on each one carefully to see
whether it does the type of encoding you want.


But wait, you’re not done yet.
There are URL encodings which are built on top of
the basic URL encoding.


The

punycode encoding
is used to encode Unicode characters in domain names,
which have an even more limited character set than URLs.


When auto-generating a URL from a string, different Web sites
use different algorithms.
This isn’t really an encoding in the URL encoding sense;
it’s just a convention for generating names for Web pages.
The result of these conversion algorithms still need to be
URL encoded.


For example, Wikipedia’s URL auto-generation algorithm
changes spaces to underscores.
It leaves most punctuation marks unchanged, which means
that once you’ve gone through Wikipedia’s auto-generation
algorithm,
you still have to go back and escape all the characters
which require escaping according to RFC3986.


As another example,
it is popular with many blog software packages
to change spaces to
hyphens when auto-generating a URL from the title of
a blog post.
The handling of special characters varies.
Some packages simply omit them; others try to encode them,
resulting in a double-encoded string if the encoding
uses characters for which RFC3986 requires encodings!


So if somebody asks a question about URL encoding,
before you answer,
make sure you understand what sense of the phrase
“URL encoding” is being used.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

