


	
        Don't forget to include the message queue in your lock hierarchy          Raymond Chen        
            
            April 18th, 20110 0
		
        
In addition to the loader lock,
the message queue is another resource that people often
forget to incorporate into their lock hierarchy.
If your code runs on a UI thread, then it implicitly owns
the message queue whenever it is running,
because messages cannot be dispatched to a thread until
it calls a message-retrieval function
such as Get­Message or
Peek­Message.
In other words, whenever a thread is not checking for a message,
it cannot receive a message.


For example, consider the following code:


EnterCriticalSection(&g_cs);
for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  SendMessage(hwndLB, LB_ADDSTRING, 0, (LPARAM)strings[i]);
}
LeaveCriticalSection(&g_cs);


If hwndLB belongs to another thread,
then you have a potential deadlock,
because that thread might be waiting for your critical section.


case WM_DOESNTMATTERWHAT:
    EnterCriticalSection(&g_cs);
    ... doesn't matter what goes here ...
    LeaveCriticalSection(&g_cs);
    break;


If you happen to try to send the message while that other
thread is waiting for the critical section,
you will deadlock because you are waiting for that thread
to finish whatever it’s doing so it can process the message
you sent to it,
but that thread is waiting for
the critical section which you own.


Even if you promise that
hwndLB belongs to your thread,
the possibility of subclassing or window hooks
means that you do not have full control over
what happens when you try to send that message.
A WH_CALL­WND­PROC
window hook may decide to communicate with
another thread (for example, to log the message).
Boom, what you thought was a simple message sent
to a window on your thread turned into a cross-thread
message.


There are many actions that generate message traffic
that may not be obvious at first glance because
they don’t involve explicitly sending a message.
Invoking a COM method from an STA thread on an object
which belongs to another apartment
requires the call to be marshaled to the thread that hosts
the object.

Tinkering with a window’s scroll bars
can result in
the WS_HSCROLL
or WS_VSCROLL style being added or removed,
which in turn generates
WM_STYLE­CHANGING and
WM_STYLE­CHANGED messages.

Obtaining the text from a window
belonging to another thread in your process
results in synchronous message traffic.


A good rule of thumb is basically to avoid anything that
involves windows belonging to other threads while holding
a critical section or other resource.
And even windows which belong to your thread are suspect
(due to hooks and subclassing).

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

