


	
        Microspeak: The bug farm          Raymond Chen        
            
            September 20th, 20110 0
		
         In its most general sense, the term bug farm refers to something that is a rich source of bugs. 
 It is typically applied to code which is nearly unmaintainable. Code can arrive in this state through a variety of means. 

Poor initial design. 
An initial design that has been pushed     far beyond its original specification     (resulting in features built on top of other features in weird ways). 
Overwhelming compatibility constraints     such that the tiniest perturbation is     highly likely to cause some application somewhere to stop working. 
Responsibility for the code residing in people whom we shall     euphemistically describe as     “failing to meet your personal standards of code quality.” 

 The term is most often used as a cautionary term, calling attention to areas where there is high risk that code you’re about to write is going to result in a bug farm. 
 Aren’t we setting ourselves up for a bug farm? 
 This could easily lead to a bug farm from different lifetimes for this various state objects. 
 The term is quite popular at Microsoft (pre-emptive snarky comment: because Microsoft software is all one giant bug farm). Here are some citations just from blogs.msdn.com: 
 Layout runs under disable processing. The reason we did that is because, well,  reentrant layout is a bug farm. 
 A lot of testers suddenly realized that case sensitivity is  a veritable bug farm on a project that thinks it is ready to go, but has not yet tried it. 
 That type of implicit vs. explicit inference also  turned out to be a bug farm. 
 Did you forget to handle an entire set of test cases?  Is the features implementation overly complex and  going to be a bug farm? 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Microspeak Other
	

