


	
        A handful of trips through the time machine          Raymond Chen        
            
            July 4th, 20110 0
		
         A few trips through the time machine: 

          24 years of Windows package design. 
          Boot screens through the ages 
          Microsoft producivity applications through the decades.     (Warning: Marketing video.)     Many of the locations in the first part of     that video are from Microsoft’s main campus.     The ones I recognized are     the brown building that opens the video,     the cubicle at 0:12 (spot the anachronism),     the office at 0:20,     the bookshelf at 0:21,     the hallway at 0:28,     the mailroom at 0:29,     and     the new bookshelf at 0:41.     But once he makes it to IT Director,     they move to some fancy-dancy building,     which Long Zheng identifies as the City Center Plaza building     in Bellevue. 
          Upgrading through every version of Windows     starting from MS-DOS 5.0. 
          Comparing every version of Internet Explorer. 

 In the Internet Explorer time machine video, I was struck by the remark, “Appearance-wise, very little had changed [in Internet Explorer 4] since IE3. Not much changed in terms of functionality, either.” In fact, Internet Explorer 4 was probably the most significant revision of Internet Explorer in its history, because that’s the version that completely replaced the old layout engine with a new one code-named  Trident, the layout engine that continues to power Internet Explorer today. Another case of “When you change the insides, nobody notices.” 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

