


	
        How long do taskbar notification balloons appear on the screen?          Raymond Chen        
            
            May 18th, 20110 0
		
        
We saw some time ago that

taskbar notification balloons don’t penalize you for being away
from the computer.
But how long does the balloon stay up when the user is there?


Originally, the balloon appeared for whatever amount of time
the application specified in the uTimeout member
of the NOTIFYICONDATA structure,
subject to a system-imposed minimum of 10 seconds and maximum
of 60 seconds.


In Windows XP, some animation was added to the balloon,
adding 2 seconds of fade-in and fade-out animation
to the display time.


Starting in Windows Vista,
applications are no longer allowed to specify how long they
wanted the balloon to appear;
the uTimeout member is ignored.
Instead, the display time is
the amount of time specified
by the SPI_GETMESSAGEDURATION system parameter,
with 1 second devoted to fade-in and
5 seconds devoted to fade-out, with a minimum of 3 seconds
of full visibility.
In other words,
if you set the message duration to less than
1+3+5=9 seconds,
the taskbar behaves as if you had set it to 9 seconds.


The default message duration is 5 seconds,
so in fact most systems are in the “shorted possible time”
case.
If you want to extend the time for which balloons notification appear,
you can use the SystemParametersInfo function to change it:


BOOL SetMessageDuration(DWORD seconds, UINT flags)
{
 return SystemParametersInfo(SPI_SETMESSAGEDURATION,
                             0, IntToPtr(seconds), flags);
}


(You typically don’t need to mess with this setting, because
you can rescue a balloon from fading out by moving the mouse over it.)


Note that an application can also set the NIF_REALTIME
flag, which means
“If I can’t display the balloon right now, then just skip it.”

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

