


	
        How can I tell whether a window is modal?          Raymond Chen        
            
            December 12th, 20110 0
		
        
A customer wanted a way to determine whether a particular
window is modal. They listed a few methods they had tried
but found that it didn’t work and asked for assistance.


As Eric Lippert
is fond of saying,
“First, write your spec.”
Until you know what you want, you won’t know how to get it.


First, you need to define what you mean by a modal window.

There are multiple competing definitions.


The customer decided that the definition of modal window
they want is this one:


A modal window is a child window that requires the user
to interact with it before they can return to operating
the parent application,
thus preventing any work on the application main window.


One thing you notice in this definition is that it talks
both about windows and applications.
You have a child window, a parent application,
and even an application main window.
This implies that a modal window must be in a different application
from its parent.
(If it were in the same application, then it vacuously does not
prevent you from interacting with the parent application because
it is the parent application.)
But modality is a user interface concept, not a process management
concept, so it’s unclear why process considerations appear in the definition.
End-users sitting in front of a user interface see windows,
not processes.
I’m going to assume that the use of the term application here
is a mistake, and that all we’re talking about is windows.


The second thing you realize from this definition is that it
is describing something impossible.
In Windows, child windows cannot be interacted with when their
parent window is disabled.
This definition appears to be using a common abuse of terminology,
using the words child and parent
instead of the more accurate but clumsier
owned and owner.
This common abuse of terminology rarely causes trouble among
people with experience programming the Windows user interface,
but it is often a source of confusion for beginners,
which is why I try to use the precise terminology
rather than the casual terminology.
And this question was clearly asked by a beginner.


Another thing you notice about this definition is that it
involves not two but three windows:
The child window, the parent window, and the application main window.
Consider the situation where you have an application main window
(which is interactive), a secondary window (which is not interactive),
and a tertiary window which is a child of by the secondary window
with which the user must interact in order to return to operating
the secondary window.



Applicationmain window

Secondary

Solid borders represent interactive windows;
                  dotted borders represent non-interactive windows.
                  Lines connect children (below) to parents (above).
    





     




Tertiary



Is the tertiary window modal, according to this definition?
I’m not sure.
It is not clear to me whether the clause
“thus preventing any work on the application main window”
is an additional constraint or is merely elaborative.
If the clause is an additional contraint, then the situation
is not modal, because the application main window is still interactive.
On the other hand, if the clause is merely elaborative,
then the situation is modal, because the tertiary window
prevents the user from interacting with the secondary window.


The fourth thing you realize from this definition is that it
requires predicting the future.
How do you know that the owner window will be available for
use once you dismiss the owned window?
Mabe the application does “if (time(NULL) % 2)
make_parent_available();“.
(Perhaps we can call upon the

graduates of the DePaul University with a degree in predicting the future
to help us here.)
Even if the result doesn’t depend on predicting the future,
determining whether the window will re-enable its parent
requires a level of code understanding beyond what can easily
be achieved programmatically.
(You would have to find the code in the other program
and study it to determine whether it re-enables the parent window
as part of its interaction. This can be hard to do by a human being
with source code,
much less by a computer program with only object code, especially
if the object code is in an interpreted language, since you now have
to reverse-engineer the interpreter too!)


No wonder the problem is so difficult:
The spec uses imprecise terminology, is unclear on its criteria,
and requires
metaphysical
certitude beyond the current level of scientific understanding.


Let’s see what we can salvage from this definition.
First, let’s make the terminology more precise:


A modal window is an owned window that requires the user
to interact with it before they can return to operating
the owner window,
thus preventing any work on the application main window.


Next, let’s delete the clause whose meaning is unclear.


A modal window is an owned window that requires the user
to interact with it before they can return to operating
the owner window.


Finally, let’s remove the part that requires predicting
the future.
Instead of describing future behavior (which is hard to predict),
we’ll make our
requirements based on present behavior
(which can be observed without the aid of a time machine).


A modal window is an owned window
whose owner window cannot be interacted with.


The revised spec says that a modal window is an owned window
whose owner is disabled.
Bingo, there’s your algorithm for detecting whether a window is modal.
Once you have a good spec, the code pretty much writes itself:


BOOL IsModalWindowAccordingToThisParticularSpec(HWND hwnd)
{
 // child windows cannot have owners
 if (GetWindowStyle(hwnd) & WS_CHILD) return FALSE;
 HWND hwndOwner = GetWindow(hwnd, GW_OWNER);
 if (hwndOwner == NULL) return FALSE; // not an owned window
 if (IsWindowEnabled(hwndOwner)) return FALSE; // owner is enabled
 return TRUE; // an owned window whose owner is disabled
}


Mind you, this spec may still not be what you actually want.
Consider the Notepad program.
Type Ctrl+F to call up the Find dialog.
This is a modeless dialog:
The main window is still interactive.
While the Find dialog is up,
call up the About dialog from the Help menu.
You now have the main Notepad window with two owned windows,
an About dialog that will re-enable the main Notepad window
when it is dismissed,
and a Find dialog that will not.



Notepad main window

A connector is solid if the owned window re-enables
                  the owner, dotted if it does not.
                  (Remember, whether the line is dotted or not cannot
                  be determined algorithmically.)
                  


 

 


About

Find



According to our spec, which of these windows is modal?
Does that match your intuitive sense?


Here’s another case:
From Notepad’s Open dialog, type the name of a file that does not
exist.



Notepad main window


 


Open


 


File not found



Which of these windows is a modal window?


Still unresolved is whether
this is the right definition for the customer’s needs.
The customer never explained why they needed to identify
modal windows, and once we gave them the
Is­Modal­Window­According­To­This­Particular­Spec
function, they never wrote back.


If they were trying to identify modal windows so they could try
to close them, then in the File not found case above,
they may try to close the Open window, when the correct
window to close first is the File not found window,
because you need to

respect a window’s disabled state.


Since the customer never wrote back, we will never know.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

