


	
        Was showing the column header in all Explorer views a rogue feature?          Raymond Chen        
            
            January 17th, 20110 0
		
        
User 🙁
asks

whether
the Explorer feature that shows the column headers in all views
was a rogue feature or a planned one.


If it was a rogue feature, it was a horribly badly hidden one.


One of the important characteristics of the rogue feature is that
you not be able to tell that the feature is there unless you go
looking for it.
If the feature is right there on the screen as soon as you
open an Explorer window,
odds are that somebody is going to notice and say something about it.
(For example,
the designer who is responsible for Explorer is probably going
to notice that every screenshot of Explorer doesn’t match the spec.)


That’s why rogue features typically take the form of

a hotkey or

holding a modifier key in conjunction with another
operation.


Writing up this characterization of rogue features reminds
me that I myself am responsible for a rogue feature of Windows 95.
If you go to an MS-DOS box, select Edit, then Mark,
then select a section of the window for copying,
if you hold the Ctrl key while dragging the mouse,
the shape of the selection changes from a box to,
um, I’m not sure the shape has a name.
But it includes all the text between the start point and the end point,
as if the contents of the window had come from an edit control.
Something like this:


xxxxxxxxXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXXxxxxxxxxxxxxx


Since this was a rogue feature, it was never tested,
and I suspect that it didn’t work on Hebrew or Arabic systems.


I must’ve chickened out, or maybe my rogue feature was found out,
because the code for streamed selections was ifdef’d out
before Windows 95 shipped.
So at least I can still honestly say that I never shipped a rogue feature.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

