


	
        Why is hybrid sleep off by default on laptops? (and how do I turn it on?)          Raymond Chen        
            
            May 10th, 20110 0
		
        
Hybrid sleep
is a type of sleep state that combines
sleep and hibernate.
When you put the computer into a hybrid sleep state,
it writes out all its RAM to the hard drive
(just like a hibernate),
and then goes into a low power state that keeps RAM refreshed
(just like a sleep).
The idea is that you can resume the computer quickly from sleep,
but if there is a power failure or some other catastrophe,
you can still restore the computer from hibernation.


A hybrid sleep can be converted to a hibernation by simply
turning off the power.
By comparison, a normal sleep requires resuming the computer
to full power in order to write out the hibernation file.
Back in the Windows XP days,
I would sometimes
see the computer in the next room spontaneously
turn itself on:
I’m startled at first, but then I see on the screen that
the system is hibernating, and I understand what’s going on.


Hybrid sleep is on by default for desktop systems
but off by default on laptops.
Why this choice?


First of all, desktops are at higher risk of the power outage
scenario wherein a loss of power (either due to a genuine
power outage or simply unplugging the computer by mistake)
causes all work in progress to be lost.
Desktop computers typically don’t have a backup battery,
so a loss of power means instant loss of sleep state.
By comparison, laptop computers have a battery which can
bridge across power outages.


Furthermore, laptops have a safety against battery drain:
When battery power gets dangerously low,
it can perform an

emergency hibernate.


Laptop manufacturers also requested that hybrid sleep be off
by default.
They didn’t want the hard drive to be active for a long time
while the system is suspending,
because when users suspend a laptop, it’s often in the form of
“Close the lid, pick up the laptop from the desk,
throw it into a bag, head out.”
Performing large quantities of disk I/O at a moment when the
computer is physically being jostled around increases the risk
that one of those I/O’s will go bad.
This pattern doesn’t exist for desktops: When you suspend a desktop
computer, you just leave it there and let it do its thing.


Of course, you can override this default easily from the Control Panel.
Under Power Options, select
Change plan settings,
then
Changed advanced power settings,
and wander over into the Sleep section of the configuration tree.


If you’re a command line sort of person,
you can use this insanely geeky command line to enable hybrid
sleep when running on AC power in Balanced mode:


powercfg -setacvalueindex 381b4222-f694-41f0-9685-ff5bb260df2e
                          238c9fa8-0aad-41ed-83f4-97be242c8f20
                          94ac6d29-73ce-41a6-809f-6363ba21b47e 1


(All one line. Take a deep breath.)
[Update: Or you can use
powercfg -setacvalueindex SCHEME_BALANCED SUB_SLEEP HYBRIDSLEEP 1,
as pointed out by

Random832.
I missed this because the ability to substitute aliases is not mentioned
in the -setacvalueindex documentation.
You have to

dig into the -aliases documentation to find it.]


Okay, what do all these insane options mean?


-setacvalueindex sets the behavior when running on AC power.
To change the behavior when running on battery, use
-setdcvalueindex instead.
Okay, that was easy.


The next part is a GUID, specifically, the GUID that represents
the balanced power scheme.
If you want to modify the setting for a different power scheme,
then substitute that scheme’s GUID.


After the scheme GUID comes the subgroup GUID.
Here, we give the GUID for the Sleep subgroup.


Next we have the GUID for the Hybrid Sleep setting.


Finally, we have the desired new value for the setting.
As you might expect, 1 enables it and 0 disables it.


And where did these magic GUIDs come from?
Run the powercfg -aliases command to see all the GUIDs.
You can also run powercfg -q to view all the settings
and their current values in the current power scheme.


Bonus reading:



    
    Windows Vista Power Management

    
    Hybrid sleep in Vista and S0 – S5 explained


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History Tips/Support
	

