


	
        And… that cadence means it's halftime, concert-goers!          Raymond Chen        
            
            July 7th, 20110 0
		
        In college, one of my classmates (who is now the conductor of an orchestra, so I guess that whole music thing worked out for him) coined the term halftime to refer to a resounding cadence in the first half of a piece, the type of cadence that might fool an inattentive or unseasoned listener into thinking that the piece is over, when in fact it’s just getting started. We’re not talking about a false ending, which is comparatively easy to find, but rather a “big finish” when we’re nowhere near the finish.
 Also sprach Zarathustra has a  big halftime cadence, complete with a reprise of the opening fanfare, at the end of Der Genesende. This was the piece that inspired the coinage of the term.
 Rhapsody on a Theme by Paganini has a  quiet halftime cadence (echoing a  big Dies Irae just a few seconds earier) in variation XX.
 Schubert’s Trout Quintet has a  halftime cadence in the precise center of the final movement. Warning listeners about it  doesn’t help.
 The first movement of Mahler’s Second Symphony has  a massive halftime cadence. (Super sideburns version.) The piece closed Gerard Schwarz’s final concert (for nitpickers: Schwarz’s final regular-season concert as music director of the Seattle Symphony), and when the halftime cadence was reached, I heard scattered applause through the hall. Which told me a few things.

The people who attended that concert were not     regular concert-goers.     Another cue was that people were far more nattily-dressed     than your average Seattle Symphony crowd,     and we were in the third tier!     (Now, I don’t normally sit in the third tier,     so who knows, maybe the third-tier crowd is the dress-up crowd.) 
The people who applauded under the mistaken impression that     the piece was over were in for a big disappointment,     since there was another hour to go! 

 Can you come up with other examples of halftime?
 False ending sidebar: Haydn is famous for false endings and other tricks. Here’s a fun story about  selling the false ending in Haydn’s 90th. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

