


	
        What does the executable timestamp really mean?          Raymond Chen        
            
            July 13th, 20110 0
		
        A customer was looking for some information on the executable timestamp:
 I would like my program to display the date it was linked. The IMAGE_FILE_HEADER.Time­Date­Stamp looks like what I need. Is there an easy way to retrieve this information so I don’t have to parse the EXE header myself? Also, what functions exist for formatting this timestamp into something human-readable? 
 The customer didn’t explain why they needed this information, but presumably it was for diagnostic purposes. For example, the program might display the information in the About box to help the product support team identify which version of the program the end-user is running.
 We’ll answer the questions in reverse order, and then answer a question that wasn’t even asked.
 The timestamp is  a Unix-style time_t timestamp; therefore, you can use the ctime function to convert it to text. If there is a particular format you like, you can use the appropriate time formatting function (though you may have to  convert it first).
 If you want to retrieve this value, you can use  helper functions in the imagehlp library; the one most applicable here appears to be Image­Nt­Header or even Get­Time­stamp­For­Loaded­Library.
 The unasked question is “Does this in fact give me the date and time that the image was linked?” Fortunately, I don’t have to write out the answer to this question, because  I answered it last year. The name timestamp is misleading. Its real purpose is to act as a signature so that the operating system can determine whether a DLL against which one set of values was precalculated matches the DLL physically on the system. A better name for it would have been UniqueId. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

