


	
        Microspeak: Recycling bits or recycling electrons          Raymond Chen        
            
            February 8th, 20110 0
		
        To recycle bits (or recycle electrons) is to take an old piece of email and use it to answer a similar (often identical) question or discussion on a mailing list. This is usually done by simply replying to the thread with the two-word message “Recycling bits” (or “Recycling electrons”) and attaching the original email message.
 An important aspect of the use of this term is that the attached email message definitively answers the question or resolves the discussion. Usually, the attached email message comes from the very same mailing list that is hosting the current discussion. For example, consider this question:
  From: X To: Q Discussion Subject: How do I do X? Date: February 8, 2011 
 Blah blah blah blah? Blah blah. Thanks. 

 An example reply which earns maximum style points would go something like this:
  From: Y To: Q Discussion Subject: RE: How do I do X? Date: February 8, 2011 
 Recycling electrons. 

 <Attached message> 
 From: S To: Q Discussion Subject: RE: How do I do X? Date: October 31, 2010 
 You first need to frob the blurble and then blah blah blah blah. 
 —-Original message—- 
 From: R To: Q Discussion Subject: How do I do X? Date: October 30, 2010 
 Blah blah blah blah? Blah blah. Thanks. 


 Since the question asked on February 8 is identical to the question asked on October 30, the answer from S can be re-used verbatim. (This of course assumes that nothing has happened in between to invalidate S‘s original answer.)
 See also: “I refer the honourable gentleman to the answer given some moments ago.” 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Microspeak Non-Computer
	

