


	
        How do I prevent users from opening TIF files?          Raymond Chen        
            
            April 25th, 20120 0
		
        
A customer had a question about their Windows XP installations.
(This question was from several years ago, so the fine details
aren’t really relevant any more, but I’m actually telling this
story for a commentary opportunity.)


The customer wanted to disable all file associations for TIFF files.
Their first attempt was by deleting HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\.tif
and
HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\.tiff.
This successfully renders TIFF files with a generic document icon,
but when the user double-clicks the file, the registration is
re-established and Windows Picture and
Fax Viewer opens the file.


The company had some
strange company security policy that says that TIFF files
should not have any file association. I don’t know the rationale
behind it, but they did say that they only needed to block
the default file association.
If the user explicitly creates a new association via the Open With
dialog, then that is not covered by the policy.


Deleting the registrations doesn’t work because Windows XP
has an autorepair feature for certain commonly-corrupted file
associations,
and TIFF is one of them.
If the TIFF registration is corrupted and the user is a member
of the Administrators group, then Windows XP will restore
the default association.
(If the user is not a member of the Administrators group,
then the usual “Windows cannot open this file” dialog box appears.)


Therefore, the solution to the customer’s odd problem is not to
delete the TIFF registrations (which causes them to be

detected as corrupted)
but rather to simply set a new default handler for TIFF files
that merely displays a message to the user.
If you’re willing to use the Windows Script Host,
then it’s a one-line program:


WScript.Echo("TIFF file associations are disabled.")


If you have been reading carefully,
you have already noticed a serious problem with the customer’s
configuration:
The fact that they are seeing the TIFF autorepair code kicking in
means that they are letting their employees run with Administrator
privileges,
which means that their so-called “security requirement” is like
worrying about employees being able to sneak into the building
through a ventilation grating,
when you give everybody a key to the front door.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Tips/Support
	

