


	
        WM_CTLCOLOR vs GetFileVersionInfoSize: Just because somebody else screwed up doesn't mean you're allowed to screw up too          Raymond Chen        
            
            September 13th, 20120 0
		
        
In a discussion of

the now-vestigial lpdwHandle parameter
to the Get­File­Version­Info­Size function,
Neil asks,
“Weren’t there sufficient API differences
(e.g. WM_CTLCOLOR) between Win16 and Win32 to justify
changing the definitions to eliminate the superfluous handle?”


The goal of Win32 was to provide as much backward compatibility with
existing 16-bit source code as can be practically achieved.
Not all of the changes were successful in achieving this goal,
but just because one person fails to meet that goal doesn’t mean
that everybody else should abandon the goal, too.


The Win32 porting tool PORTTOOL.EXE scanned for things
which had changed and inserted comments saying things like


“No Win32 API equivalent” — these were for the 25 functions
    which were very tightly coupled to the 16-bit environment,
    like selector management functions.
“Replaced by OtherFunction” — these were used for the 38
    functions which no longer existed in Win32, but for which
    corresponding function did exist, but the parameters were
    different so a simple search-and-replace was not sufficient.
“Replaced by XYZ system” — these were for functions that
    used an interface that was completely redesigned:
    the 16 old sound functions that buzzed your tinny PC speaker
    being replaced by the new multimedia system,
    and the 8 profiling functions.
“This function is now obsolete” — these were for the 16 functions
    that no longer had any effect, like
    Global­LRU­Newest and
    Limit­EMS­Pages.
“wParam/lParam repacking” — these were for the 21 messages that
    packed their parameters differently.
Special remarks for eight functions whose parameters changed
    meaning and therefore required special attention.
A special comment just for window procedures.


If you add it up, you’ll see that this makes for a total of 117
breaking changes.
And a lot of these changes were in rarely-used parts of Windows
like the selector-management stuff, the PC speaker stuff,
the profiling stuff, and the serial port functions.
The number of breaking changes that affected typical
developers was more like a few dozen.


Not bad for a total rewrite of an operating system.


If somebody said,
“Hey, you should port to this new operating system.
Here’s a list of 117 things you need to change,”
you’re far more likely to respond,
“Okay, I guess I can do that,”
than if somebody said,
“Here’s a list of 3,000 things you need to change.”
Especially if some of the changes were

not absolutely necessary, but were added merely to annoy you.
(I would argue that the handling of many GDI functions
like Move­To
fell into the added merely to annoy you category,
but at least

a simple macro
smooths over most of the problems.)


One of the messages that required special treatment was
WM_COMMAND.
In 16-bit Windows, the parameters were as follows:



WPARAM
int nCode


LPARAM
HWND hwndCtl (low word)


int id (high word)



Observe that this message violated the rule that

handle-sized things go in the WPARAM.
As a result, this parameter packing method could not be maintained
in Win32.
If it had been packed as



WPARAM
HWND hwndCtl


LPARAM
int id (low word)


int nCode (high word)



then the message would have ported cleanly to Win32.
But Win32 handles are 32-bit values,
so there’s no room for both an HWND
and an integer in a 32-bit LPARAM;
as a result, the message had to be repacked in Win32.


The WM_CTL­COLOR message was an extra special
case of a message that required changes,
because it was the only one
that changed in a way that required more than just mechanical
twiddling of the way the parameters were packaged.
Instead,
it got split out into several messages, one for each type of
control.


In 16-bit Windows, the
parameters to the WM_CTL­COLOR message were
as follows:



WPARAM
HDC hdc


LPARAM
HWND hwndCtl (low word)


int type (high word)



The problem with this message was that it had two handle-sized
values.
One of them went into the WPARAM,
like all good handle-sized parameters,
but the second one was forced to share a bunk bed with the type code
in the LPARAM.
This arrangement didn’t survive in Win32 because handles expanded
to 32-bit values,
but unlike
WM_COMMAND,
there was nowhere to put the now-ousted type,
since both the WPARAM and LPARAM were full
with the two handles.
Solution:
Encode the type code in the message number.
The WM_CTL­COLOR message became a collection
of messages, all related by the formula


WM_CTLCOLORtype = WM_CTLCOLORMSGBOX + CTLCOLOR_type


The WM_CTL­COLOR message was the bad boy
in the compatibility contest,
falling pretty badly on its face.
(How many metaphors can I mix in one article?)


But just because there’s somebody who screwed up doesn’t mean
that you’re allowed to screw up too.
If there was a parameter that didn’t do anything any more,
just declare it a reserved parameter. That way, you didn’t have to go
onto the “wall of shame” of functions that didn’t port cleanly.
The

Get­File­Version­Info­Size function
kept its vestigial lpdwHandle parameter,

Win­Main kept its vestigial hPrev­Instance
parameter,
and

Co­Initialize kept its vestigial lpReserved
parameter.


This also explains why significant effort was made in the
32-bit to 64-bit transition not to make breaking changes
just because you can.
As much as practical, porting issues were designed in such a way
that they could be detected at compile time.
Introducing gratuitous changes in behavior makes the porting
process harder than it needs to be.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

