


	
        How your taskbar auto-hide settings can keep getting overwritten          Raymond Chen        
            
            July 5th, 20120 0
		
        A customer reported that they were observing
that some users were finding their taskbar set to auto-hide even
though the standard configuration in the company is for the auto-hide
feature to be disabled.
Going into Taskbar Properties shows Auto-hide the taskbar checked.
None of the users had changed their setting to auto-hide manually,
so the question was raised to the Windows team,
“Are there any cases where Explorer will set the auto-hide setting
on its own?”


Explorer does not set the auto-hide checkbox on its own.
Now, the taskbar does auto-hide even when the setting is unchecked
if it detects that the application is trying to go full-screen,
say, in order to show a slide show or

play World of Warcraft.
But that doesn’t check the check-box.


Further investigation revealed that

the check-box was being checked programmatically
by one of the programs that the company used.
And it wasn’t custom software but a commercial product
which targets the corporate market.


The customer reported back that the problem was sporadic.
They could not reproduce it consistently.


My guess is that the application in question was trying to
enable auto-hide temporarily for whatever reason.
At program startup, it checks the current auto-hide setting,
and if it’s off, it programmatically turns auto-hide on.


previousState = IsAutoHideTaskbarEnabled();
SetAutoHideTaskbar(true);


When the program exits, it restores the original setting.


SetAutoHideTaskbar(previousState);


This is a highly fragile solution for several reasons:
What if the application crashes before it can restore the setting?


What if two people did this?


Initially, auto-hide is off.
Program A remembers that auto-hide was off and sets it on.
Program B remembers that auto-hide was on and sets it on.
Program A exits and restores auto-hide to off.


Oops, now we have a problem: Program B wants auto-hide on,
but Program A just turned it off.


Program B exits and restores auto-hide to on.


Oops, the auto-hide setting was left in the ‘on’ state
after everybody thought they had restored it.


As a special case of What if two people did this?,
the Program B could be the Taskbar Properties page itself.
While your program is running, the user goes to Taskbar Properties
and sees that the checkbox is set incorrectly.
Maybe they go in and “fix it”, and now Program A is running
with a visible taskbar.

What if the application tries to restore the state
after Explorer has already saved its settings?
When the user logs off, all processes are told to clean up their toys
and to go bed.
In response to WM_ENDSESSION,
Explorer saves out its settings and calls it a night.
What if this happens before the application programmatically unchecks
the box?
Explorer says, “Okay, I unchecked the box.”
But Explorer already saved out its settings; these updated settings
aren’t going to be saved again.


This is what happens when you expose a global setting programmatically.
People see the setting and think that twiddling it will solve their problem
instead of

looking for a local solution to their local problem,
in this case

creating a fullscreen window that covers the taskbar.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

