


	
        Puzzling triple rainbow clearly identifies location of pot of gold          Raymond Chen        
            
            November 26th, 20120 0
		
        I noted to some friends that the weather forecast for Seattle two weekends ago called for rain on Friday, rain on Saturday, and rain on Sunday. But at least on Monday, the forecast was not for rain.
 It was for heavy rain.
 One of the consequences of Seattle’s annual Rain Festival (runs from January 1 to December 31) is that we get plenty of potential for rainbows. A friend of mine was lucky enough to capture a photo of  a puzzling triple rainbow this past weekend. The primary and secondary rainbows  we all know about, but what’s that vertical rainbow shooting straight up into the sky? (And observe that the landing point of the rainbow is clearly in front of a house and trees, so go get your pot of gold.)
 It turns out that the mysterious third rainbow is a  reflection rainbow. Reflection rainbows occur when light bounces off a body of water before being refracted by rain droplets. The body of water acts like a mirror and creates a virtual light source, which results in a rainbow that is off-center from the primary.
 Science!
 (I find it interesting that there are some rainbow phenomena that science is still trying to understand. Only a few months ago did researchers figure out  how twinned rainbows are formed.)
 Bonus reading: Seattle weather celebrity (yes, we have weather celebrities here)  Cliff Mass  digs into the triple-rainbow phenomenon, augmenting his analysis with Doppler radar, because that’s how he rolls. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

