


	
        Microspeak: Walls and ladders          Raymond Chen        
            
            January 17th, 20120 0
		
        Reader laonianren wanted to know more about this game  Walls and Ladders.
 “Walls and Ladders” is not a game. It’s just a metaphor for a conflict in which one side wants to perform some action and the other side wants to prevent it.  The defending side builds a wall, and the attacking side builds a taller ladder. In response, the defending side builds a taller wall, and the attacking side builds an even taller ladder. The result of this conflict is that the defending side constructs an ever-more-elaborate wall and the attacking side constructs  a more-and-more complex ladder [link possible NSFW], both sides expending ridiculous amounts of resources and ultimately ending up back where they started.
 There is a closely-related metaphor known as an  arms race. In an arms race, each participant wants to be the most X, for some property X. An arms race tends to be all-attack, whereas wall-and-ladders tends to have one side attacking and the other defending.
 Since many conflicts can be phrased either as an attack-attack scenario or an attack-defend scenario (some defenses may include counter-attacks), I tend to get the two confused. Notice, for example, that my  arms race article contains mostly walls-and-ladders scenarios; for example, a case where one side wants to terminate a process and another wants to  prevent it from being terminated. On the other hand, my  wall and ladders example was really more of an arms race, with both sides wanting to take control of the screen.
 Depending on which group you work with at Microsoft, you may find a preference for walls and ladders over arms race, probably due to the same sensitivity to military terms that led to the  War Room being renamed Ship Room. (I seem to recall that there was a lawsuit that among other things alleged that the fact that a Microsoft project called its daily meeting room the War Room was proof of  Microsoft’s evil essence.) 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Microspeak Non-Computer
	

