


	
        When the option becomes so second-nature you forget that it’s an option          Raymond Chen        
            
            February 27th, 20130 0
		
        
A user of the imaginary

Program Q
program wanted to write an automated test that created a table,
then ran various sub-test which communicated among each other
by updating that table.



When my test tries to create a table,
the program asks the following question:


q install server -r testdb
Setting up this machine to be a registered table server…
Registered table servers must adhere to Microsoft information 
security policies. See http://programq/policy for details.
If you have questions, contact mailto:qpolicy.
Do you agree to adhere to Microsoft policies regarding
registered table servers (y/n/q)?


Is there a way to suppress the question?
I can’t pre-create a single server that all the tests
connect to,
because multiple tests running simultaneously would
end up colliding with each other.
I would prefer that each test run on its own isolated
table server,
but when I try to install a table server on the machine
being tested,
I get the above prompt.



Why not just create an unregistered table server instead?
Just leave off the -r flag.
Give your problem description, there appears to be
no need for the table server to be registered.


Ah, didn’t know about the ability to create an unregistered
server.
Works great!


The user was apparently so accustomed to creating
registered table servers that he didn’t realize that there
was any other kind.
My guess is that he had no idea what the
-r flag did;
he just cargo-culted it from somewhere.


Remember:
The target audience for Program Q is not
non-technical end-users.
The target audience is other programmers,
and this person was clearly a programmer since he
was writing an automated test!


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

