


	
        Why does Explorer sometimes show my server name in parentheses?          Raymond Chen        
            
            July 31st, 20130 0
		
        
A customer wanted to know why Explorer showed one of their servers
in the folder list the normal way:


⊞ servername


but another server showed up “where the server name is parentheses
and the node name is in front.”


⊞ nodename (servername)


“Where is Explorer getting that information,
and why are the two servers showing up in different ways?”


It’s all in the server comment.


From the command line, you can view the server comment by
typing
net view \\servername.
For example,


Shared resources at \\servername
Printer server next to the third floor bathroom
Share name  Type  Used as  Comment
----------------------------------
...


You can set the comment with the command line


net config server /srvcomment:"Printer server next to the third floor bathroom"


If a server has a comment,
then the comment is shown to the user on the expectation that the
comment is something that is more meaningful to the user than some
cryptic server name.
Microsoft’s own server names are hyper-cryptic, like
TK5EX14MBXW603.
Of course if you talk to a support technician,
they’ll tell you that the name is clear as day.
“The TK means that the server is physically in our Tukwila data center.
The 5 means that…” (I never manage to stay awake long enough to
learn what the 5 stands for.)


I guess this created more confusion than clarification,
because the comment-name-followed-by-parenthesized-server-name
convention appears no longer to be in use starting in Windows Vista.


Communications breakdown:
When we provided this information back to the customer,
the customer liaison simply replied back,
“Thanks, we figured that out on our own.”


That was not a very clear reply.
Is the customer liaison saying,
“That’s the information we were looking for, thanks.
We managed to figure that out on our own in the meantime.”
Or maybe the customer liaison was trying to say
“Thanks for the information,
but we already knew that.
We were looking for something else.”


I asked the customer liaison whether they needed any more
information from us,
and there was no reply.
I guess that’s passive-aggressive way of saying, “No.”

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Tips/Support
	

