


	
        It rather involved being on the other side of this airtight hatchway: Disabling Safe DLL searching          Raymond Chen        
            
            July 5th, 20130 0
		
        
The

Microsoft Vulnerability Research
team discovered a potential

current directory attack
in a third party program.
The vendor, however, turned around and forwarded the report
to the

Microsoft Security Response Center:



Our investigation suggests that this issue is due to a bug
in Microsoft system DLLs rather than our program.
When a process is launched,
for example, when the user double-clicks the icon in Explorer,
a new process object is created, and the DLLs are loaded
by a component known as the Loader.
The Loader locates the DLLs,
maps them into memory,
and then calls the DllMain function for each of the modules.
It appears that some Microsoft DLLs obtain DLLs from the
current directory and are therefore susceptible to a current
directory attack.
We created a simple Win32 application which demonstrates the issue:


#include <windows.h>
int __cdecl main(int argc, char **argv)
{
 return MessageBox(NULL, "Test", "Test", MB_OK);
}


If you place a fake copy of DWMAPI.DLL
in the same directory as the application,
then the Loader will use that fake copy instead of the system one.


This technique can be used to attack many popular programs.
For example, placing a fake copy of
DWMAPI.DLL in the
C:\Program Files\Internet Explorer directory
allows it to be injected into Internet Explorer.
Placing the file in the
C:\Program Files\Adobe\Reader 9.0\Reader directory
allows it to be injected into Adobe Reader.



(I like how the report

begins with some exposition.)


The vendor appears to have confused two directories,
the current directory and the application directory.
They start out talking about a current directory attack,
but when the money sentence arrives,
they talk about placing the rogue DLL
“in the same directory as the application,”
which makes this not a current directory attack
but an application directory attack.


We saw some time ago that

the directory is the application bundle,
and the application bundle can override DLLs in the system directory.
Again, this is just another illustration of the importance of

securing your application directory.


The specific attacks listed at the end of the report
require writing into
C:\Program Files,
but in order to drop your rogue DWMAPI.DLL file
into that directory,
you need to have administrative privileges in the first place.


In other words, in order to attack the system,
you first need to get on the other side of the airtight hatchway.


There was one final attempt to salvage this bogus vulnerability report:



We can also reproduce the problem without requiring write access
to the Program Files directory
by disabling

Safe DLL searching.



Nice try.
In order to disable Safe DLL searching,
you need to have administrator privileges,
so you’re already on the other side of the airtight hatchway.
And if you elevate to administrator
and disable safe DLL searching,
then is it any surprise that you have unsafe DLL searching?
This is just another case of

If you set up an insecure system, don’t be surprised that there’s
a security vulnerability.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

