


	
        2013 mid-year link clearance          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 28th, 20130 0
		
         Another round of the semi-annual link clearance. 

          Why organized shoplifters love Tide liquid detergent:     High value-to-volume, low risk,     easy to fence due to supply chain issues. 
          How to tell if a “shark in a flooded city street after     a storm” photo is a fake in five easy steps.     Personally, I jump right to step 5:     “Just assume it’s a fake.” 
          How to be German.     Though I think the author is too harsh on German grammar.     German grammar rigidly follows the rules,     just like the German people.     Why the surprise?     (For me, learning German was the opposite of the author’s experience.     Learning the rules was fun. Learning words was boring.) 
          The Longest Minute on Earth:     Mike Tanier analyzes college basketball endgames and determines     that the “final minute” of a college basketball game takes between     eight and twelve minutes. 
          Emerald is Pantone’s Color of the Year.     Who accepts the award? 
          I Got Paid To Cheer For Another NCAA Tournament Team,     And Other Confessions Of A Spirit Squad Member:     Everybody pays attention to the basketball teams participating     in the NCAA tournament,     but the real free ride goes to the cheerleaders. 
          So your boss is implicated in a sex scandal.     The hidden dangers of working in a politician’s office. 
          Very old scientific papers are both awesome and hilarious.     I remember reading the minutes of meetings of the Royal Society     shortly after the vacuum pump was developed.     A lot of the entries were of the form     “Mr. X placed Y in a vacuum.     No change was observed.”     Even if Y = a mouse. 
          A lawyer analyzes Bilbo’s contract in The Hobbit. 
          The Crisis in American Walking,     a series of articles on how walking is on the decline     in the United States. 
          Confessions of a Non-Serial Killer:     What it’s like to become the target of a conspiracy theory.     (One thing I learned: If you want the media to lose interest,     issue a boring statement.) 
     ESPN’s documentary          Broke     looks at the many ways atheletes lose their money.     It is          available for purchase on Amazon     or just          read a nice article about it. 
          Celestra,     a Battlestar Galactica-inspired LARP     which took place on the destroyer Småland in Gothenburg, Sweden.          Wired has a write-up.     See? I knew learning Swedish would come in handy for something.     (No, I didn’t go.) 
     Twice a year,     fans of Disneyland choose a day to show up at the park          smartly dressed in vintage fashion inspired by the illustrations     of park guests in the 1950’s.     They call it     Dapper Day.     Here are some pictures from          Spring 2013.     Maybe next time, I’ll wear a suit to Disneyland.     I have a few to choose from. 
     Last year,          I linked to          Conspiracy Über Alles,     a research result that shows that once you entertain one     conspiracy theory, you start to take them all,     even if they are contradictory.     This year, we get to observe the inevitable consequences:          Conspiracy theorists are convinced that a research paper     critical of conspiracy theorists is part of a conspiracy.     Naturally, the researchers analyzed the angry responses to their     original paper and          published a new paper     aptly titled          Recursive Fury.     I can’t wait for Round Three. 
          Elections for directors of public companies are a sham.     In 2012, every single director who failed to be re-elected     remained on the board anyway.     One time, a company called me to say,     “Our records show that you have not sent in your vote.     Please do so, so that we can hold our annual meeting.”     I explained, “Yes, I am withholding my vote on purpose.     Preventing a quorum     is the only way I can prevent the current board of directors     from being re-elected.” 
How     disposable chopsticks are made.     The part of the process where my jaw dropped was at timecode     7:30, where all the chopsticks are just dumped into huge piles,     and then human beings sort through them for quality control.     Certainly they can automate this part, too? 
Mega-panorama-fest: 

London.     Another one     from people who seem to make a lot of panoramas. 
Prague. 
Mars. 



 And, as always, the obligatory plug for my column in  TechNet Magazine: 

          Rationale is highly overrated.     (Thanks to commenter kinokijuf for finding it!) 
          Signs your project is doomed 
          Feature-colored glasses 
          The feature battle 
          Once bitten, twice shy 
          Retire the rubber stamp. 


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

