


	
        Brief Q&A on the HeapEnableTerminationOnCorruption heap information flag          Raymond Chen        
            
            December 27th, 20130 0
		
        Question: What type of heaps are controlled by the Heap­Enable­Termination­On­Corruption flag?
 Answer: Any user-mode heap created by the Heap­Create function. This includes the process heap (Get­Process­Heap) but  not the managed heap. Some components use Heap­Create under the hood. If so, then those heaps would also be affected.
 Question: What versions of Windows support Heap­Enable­Termination­On­Corruption?
 Answer: The flag was introduced in Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008. It is also available on Windows XP Service Pack 3. In table form:


Support
Client
Server


     ☹     Not Available     
     …     Windows 2000     Windows XP RTM, SP1, SP2     
     …     Windows Server 2000     Windows Server 2003     


     Available     ☺     
     Windows XP SP3     Windows Vista     Windows 7     …     
     Windows Server 2008     Windows Server 2008 R2     …     


 Question: For operating systems that support it, under what conditions will  termination on corruption be enabled?
 Answer:

For all 64-bit processes. 
For all 32-bit processes whose executable sets the          subsystem major version     to 6 or higher in the image header. 
If you call     Heap­Set­Information with the     Heap­Enable­Termination­On­Corruption     parameter. 

 Question: What is the effect of setting the subsystem major version in a DLL? Will that control whether termination on corruption is enabled for any heaps created by my DLL?
 Answer: No. For the purpose of rule 2 above, it is the major subsystem of the executable that decides whether termination on corruption. The major subsystem of any DLLs loaded by the process have no effect. This is consistent with  other process decisions.
 Question: Can I enable termination on corruption for some heaps but not others?
 Answer: No. Turning on termination on corruption turns it on for all heaps in the process.
 Question: Can I disable termination on corruption after it has been enabled?
 Answer: No. It is a one-way door. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

