


	
        The curious pattern of pre-emptively rejecting the solution to your problem          Raymond Chen        
            
            February 6th, 20130 0
		
        
A frustrating pattern that shows up occasionally in customer
questions is the case where the customer poses a problem,
and pre-emptively rejects the mechanism explicitly designed
to solve that problem.


How can we change the widget color without using
IWidget::Set­Color?


Um, the whole point of
IWidget::Set­Color
is to change the color of a widget.
Why are you rejecting the mechanism whose sole purpose
in life is to solve the very problem you are having?


Usually, if you press hard enough, they will cough up the
reason why they think they cannot use the solution specifically
designed to do what they want.
Various excuses tend to come up over and over.


One excuse is the belief that the proposed solution
does not work in a particular scenario.
“We cannot use ACLs because they don’t work on network volumes.”
Um, yes they do.
Check it out.


Or that the proposed solution doesn’t fit their choice
of technology.
“We are programming in a language that does not support
COM objects.
We can only p/invoke to C-style APIs.”
Well, you can work around that problem by writing a helper
DLL that exposes a C-style API, and implements it by
calling the COM method.


Or that the proposed solution violates some vague corporate
policy.
“We have a corporate policy that users cannot change widget colors,
so the
IWidget::Set­Color method returns
E_ACCESS­DENIED.
We’re looking for a way around that policy.”
Okay, well, now that’s something you need to take up with the
people who establish your corporate policies.
Don’t come to us looking for ways to circumvent corporate policy.


One time, the reason came from our
own technical support staff:
“We cannot write a C++ program that calls
IWidget::Set­Color
and provide it to the customer
because we are not a developer support team.
We are not allowed to send compiled binaries to the customer
for liability reasons,
and we generally do not send
source code because our customers
typically do not have the expertise or desire to install
Visual Studio and
the Platform SDK just to compile and run a five-line C++ program.
(Did I mention that we are not a developer support team?)
Can it be done from a batch file?”


Yeah, how about this batch file:


 >changeColor.cs echo using System;
>>changeColor.cs echo class Program {
>>changeColor.cs echo public static void Main(string[] args) {
>>changeColor.cs echo …
>>changeColor.cs echo }
>>changeColor.cs echo }
%windir%\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v4.0.30319\csc changeColor.cs
changeColor blue


Only half-joking.


The non-joking answer is
“The customer can take this information to a developer support team,
or at least somebody who will write the program for them,
if they don’t know how to write a program themselves.”
Microsoft Consulting Services exists for this, but that is
likely overkill for a five-line program.


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

