


	
        How can I figure out which user modified a file?          Raymond Chen        
            
            April 18th, 20130 0
		
        The Get­File­Time function will tell you when a file was last modified, but it won’t tell you who did it. Neither will Find­First­File, Get­File­Attributes, or Read­Directory­ChangesW, or File­System­Watcher.
 None of these the file system functions will tell you which user modified a file because the file system doesn’t keep track of which user modified a file. But there is somebody who does keep track: The security event log. 
 To generate an event into the security event log when a file is modified, you first need to enable auditing on the system. In the Local Security Policy administrative tool, go to Local Policies, and then double-click Audit Policy. (These steps haven’t changed  since Windows 2000; the only thing is that the Administrative Tools folder  moves around a bit.) Under Audit Object Access, say that you want an audit raised when access is successfully granted by checking Success (An audited security access attempt that succeeds). 
 Once auditing is enabled, you can then mark the files that you want to track modifications to. On the Security tab of each file you are interested in, go to the Auditing page, and select Add to add the user you want to audit. If you want to audit all accesses, then you can choose Everyone; if you are only interested in auditing a specific user or users in specific groups, you can enter the user or group. 
 After specifying whose access you want to monitor, you can select what actions should generate security events. In this case, you want to check the Successful box next to Create files / write data. This means “Generate a security event when the user requests and obtains permission to create a file (if this object is a directory) or write data (if this object is a file).” 
 If you want to monitor an entire directory, you can set the audit on the directory itself and specify that the audit should apply to objects within the directory as well. 
 After you’ve set up your audits, you can view the results in Event Viewer. 
 This technique of using auditing to track who is generating modifications also works for registry keys: Under the Edit menu, select Permissions. 
 Exercise: You’re trying to debug a problem where a file gets deleted mysteriously, and you’re not sure which program is doing it. How can you use this technique to log an event when that specific file gets deleted? 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

