


	
        Understanding the classical model for linking: Taking symbols along for the ride          Raymond Chen        
            
            January 8th, 20130 0
		
        
Last time, we learned the basics of

the classical model for linking.
Today, we’ll look at the historical background for that model,
and how the model is exploited by libraries.


In the classical model,
compilers and assemblers consume source code and spit out
an OBJ file.
They do as much as they can, but eventually they get stuck
because they don’t have the entire module at their disposal.
To record the work remaining to be done, the OBJ file contains
various sections:
a data section, a code section (historically
and confusingly called text),
an uninitialized data section, and so on.
The linker resolves symbols, and then for each OBJ file
that got pulled into the module,
it combines all the code sections into one giant code section,
all the data sections into one giant data section, and so on.


One thing you may have noticed is that the unit of consumption
is the OBJ file.
If an OBJ file is added to the module,
the whole thing gets added,

even if you needed only a tiny part
of the OBJ file.
Historically,
the reason for this rule is that the compilers and assemblers
did not include information in the OBJ file to indicate
how to separate all the little pieces.
It’s like if somebody said,
“Can you get me a portable mp3 player?”
and the only thing available in the library
was a smartphone.
Sure, it plays mp3 files, but there’s a lot of other
electronic junk in there that you didn’t ask for,
but it came along for the ride.
And you don’t know how to disassemble the smartphone
and extract just the mp3-player part.


This behavior is actually exploited as a feature,
because it allows for tricks like this:


/* magicnumber.h */
extern int magicNumber;
/* magicnumber.c */
int magicNumber;
class InitMagicNumber
{
 InitMagicNumber()
 {
    magicNumber = …;
 }
}
g_InitMagicNumber;


I’m not going to go into the magic of

how the compiler knows to construct the
g_Init­Magic­Number
object at module entry;
I’ll let you read up on that.


The point is that if anybody in the module refers
to the magic­Number variable,
then that causes magic­number.obj
to be pulled into the module, which brings in not
just the magic­Number variable,
but also the
g_Init­Magic­Number object,
which initializes the magic number when
the process starts.


One place the C runtime library took advantage of this
was in deciding whether or not to include floating point
support.


As you may recall, the 8086 processor did not have
native floating support.
You had to buy the 8087 coprocessor for that.
It was therefore customary for programs of that era
to include a floating point library if they
did any floating point arithmetic.
The library would redirect floating point
operations from the coprocessor to the emulator.


The floating point emulation library was pretty
hefty, and it would have been a waste to include
it for programs that didn’t use floating point
(which was most of them),
so the compiler used a trick to allow it to pull
in the floating point library only if the
program used floating point:
If you used floating point,
then the compiler added a needed symbol
to your OBJ file:
__fltused.


That magical
__fltused symbol was marked as
provided
by… the floating point emulation library!


The linker found the symbol in an OBJ in
the floating point emulation library,
and that served as the loose thread that
caused the rest of the floating point
emulation library to be pulled into your module.


Next time,
we’ll look at the interaction between OBJ files and LIB files.


Bonus reading:
Larry Osterman gives

another example
of this trick.


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code Linker
	

