


	
        Why does an attempt to create a SysLink control in my plug-in sometimes fail?          Raymond Chen        
            
            November 7th, 20140 0
		
        A customer had written a plug-in for some application, and they found that their plug-in was unable to create a SysLink control via the Create­Window­ExW function. The same code in a standalone application works fine, but when the code is placed in their plug-in, the code fails.
 Debugging showed that the call to Init­Common­Controls­Ex succeeded, but the Create­Window­ExW call failed with “Cannot find window class.”
 The customer is another victim of  not keeping their eye on the activation context.
 They attached a manifest to their DLL so that the call to Init­Common­Controls­Ex maps to the version of the common controls library that supports the SysLink control. But they did nothing to ensure that that context was active at the time they called Create­Window­ExW.
 The customer’s plug-in clearly falls into the case  Adding Visual Style Support to an Extension, Plug-in, MMC Snap-in or a DLL That Is Brought into a Process. but they failed to follow the instructions provided therein (which boil down to “use isolation awareness”).
 From the symptoms, it appears that the host application for their plug-in does not activate a version-6 common controls manifest at the time it calls into the plug-in, which means that your attempt to create version-6 common controls will fail.
 On the other hand, the standalone application probably uses the technique given in  Using ComCtl32.dll Version 6 in an Application That Uses Only Standard Extensions, which activates the version-6 common controls when the process starts and leaves it active for the duration of the process. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

