


	
        Microspeak: All-up          Raymond Chen        
            
            October 7th, 20140 0
		
        
Here are some citations.
Let’s see if we can figure out what it means.


I think a presentation of these results would be a fun boost for the team.
Is this something we should handle in a bunch of teams’
weekly meetings,
or should we do something all up?


In the first citation, all up appears to mean
“with everybody all together.”


We’re looking for an all-up view
of the various compatibility mitigations we have related to this feature.


In the second citation, all up could mean
“overview” or “detailed summary”.
Not sure yet.
Let’s keep looking.


From the all up performance effort,
we’ve settled on the approach below.


Okay, this seems to suggest that
all up refers to an aggregation of individual items.
Let’s try again:


We have a number of channels for disseminating information.
I think an all up destination could play a key and proactive role
in major announcements such as the one from last week.


Here, all up appears to mean
“consolidated, comprehensive”.
Let’s keep going.


Document title: XYZ All Up Glossary


This document is a glossary.
Presumably is a glossary of terms you may encounter throughout
the entire XYZ project.
One last citation,
this from a status report:



This week: Created Customer All up report.
Next week: Update Customer all up report with more customer
    related information.



Okay, this didn’t actually tell me much about what
an all up report is,
which is kind of a bummer because I was asked to create an
all up report,
and I still don’t know if what I created is what the person wanted.


(I ended up creating a report that summarized the status of
every team,
and called out issues that were noteworthy or reasons for concern.
The person who asked for the report didn’t complain,
so I guess that was close enough to what they wanted that they
didn’t bother asking for more.)

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Microspeak Non-Computer
	

