


	
        What does it mean when GetQueuedCompletionStatus return ERROR_SEM_TIMEOUT?          Raymond Chen        
            
            July 17th, 20140 0
		
        A customer asked for assistance interpreting a failure of the Get­Queued­Completion­Status function.
  We are observing that Get­Queued­Completion­Status is intermittently behaving as follows: 

The handle is a SOCKET. 
The function returns FALSE. 
lpOverlapped != NULL. 
Get­Last­Error reports     ERROR_SEM_TIMEOUT:     “The semaphore timeout period has expired.” 

 That’s all the information we have in our log files. We don’t know the value of number­Of­Bytes or completion­Key, sorry. 
 We realize that this is a rather vague question, but when this problem hits our machines, it causes our internal logic to go into a reset state since it doesn’t know what the error means or how to recover. Resetting is expensive, and we would prefer to handle this error in a less drastic manner, if only we knew what it meant. 

 The error code ERROR_SEM_TIMEOUT is a rather bad translation of the underlying status code STATUS_IO_TIMEOUT, which is much more meaningful. It means that the I/O operation timed out.
 Colleagues of mine from the networking team chimed in with additional information:
 A common source of this error with TCP sockets is that the  maximum retransmission count and timeout have been reached on a bad (or broken) link.
 If you know that the handle is a socket, then you can use WSA­Get­Overlapped­Result on the lpOverlapped that got returned. Winsock will convert the status code to something more Winsocky. In this case, it would have given you WSA­ETIMED­OUT, which makes it clearer what happened. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

