


	
        You can name your car, and you can name your kernel objects, but there is a qualitative difference between the two          Raymond Chen        
            
            October 1st, 20140 0
		
        
A customer reported that the
Wait­For­Single­Object
appeared to be unreliable.



We have two threads, one that waits on an event and the other
that signals the event.
But we found that sometimes, signaling the event does not wake
up the waiting thread.
We have to signal it twice.
What are the conditions under which
Wait­For­Single­Object
will ignore a signal?


// cleanup and error checking elided for expository purposes
void Thread1()
{
  // Create an auto-reset event, initially unsignaled
  HANDLE eventHandle = CreateEvent(NULL, FALSE, FALSE, TEXT("MyEvent"));
  // Kick off the background thread and give it the handle
  CreateThread(..., Thread2, eventHandle, ...);
  // Wait for the event to be signaled
  WaitForSingleObject(eventHandle, INFINITE);
}
DWORD CALLBACK Thread2(void *eventHandle)
{
 ResetEvent(eventHandle); // start with a clean slate
 DoStuff();
 // All the calls to SetEvent succeed.
 SetEvent(eventHandle); // this does not always wake up Thread1
 SetEvent(eventHandle); // need to add this line
 return 0;
}

Remember, you generally

shouldn't start with the conspiracy theory.
The problem is most likely close to home.


People offered a variety of theories as to what may be wrong.
One possibility is that some other code in the process is calling
Reset­Event on the event handle.
Another is that some other code in the process has a bug where it
is calling Reset­Event on the wrong event handle.


I asked about the name.


I have a friend who names her car.
Whenever she gets a new car,
she agonizes over what to call it.
She'll drive it for a few days to see what its personality is
and eventually choose a name that suits the vehicle.
And thereafter, whenever she refers to her car,
she uses the name.
(She also assigns the car a gender.)


If you like naming your car, then that's great.
But there's a
difference between naming your car and naming your kernel objects.
When you give your car a name, that name is just for your private use.
On the other hand, if you give your kernel object a name,
other people can use that name to access your object.
And once they have access to your object,
they can do funky things to it,
like reset it.


Imagine if you decided to name your car Clara,
and any time somebody shouted,
"Clara, where are you?"
your car horn honked.
I'm assuming your car has voice recognition software.
Also that your car has the personality of a puppy.
Work with me here.


Even scarier: Any time somebody shouted,
"Clara, open the trunk,"
your car trunk unlocked.


That's what happens when you name your kernel objects.
Anybody who knows the name (and has appropriate access)
can open the object and start
doing things to it.
Presumably that's why you named your kernel object in the first place:
You want this to happen.
You gave your object a name specifically to allow other people to
come in and access the same object.


In the above example, I saw that the event had a very generic-sounding
name,
My­Event.
That sounds like the name that some other similarly uncreative application
developer might have chosen.


And indeed, that was the reason.
There was another application which was creating an event that
coincidentally has the same name,
so instead of creating a new object,
the kernel returned a handle to the existing one.
The other application called Wait­For­Single­Object
on the event,
and so when the customer's program called
Set­Event,
it woke the other application instead.
So this bug has a double-whammy:
Not only does it cause your program to miss a signal,
it causes the other program to receive a signal when it wasn't
expecting one.
Two bugs for the price of one.


Note that no matter how clever you are at choosing a name for your
event,
you will always have this problem,
because even if you called it
Super­Secret­Never­Gonna­Find­It­75,
there's a program out there that knows the secret name:
Namely your own program!
If you run two copies of your program, they will both be manipulating the
same
Super­Secret­Never­Gonna­Find­It­75,
and then you're back where you started.
When the first copy of the program calls Set­Event,
it may wake up the second copy.


(This is the same principle behind the conclusion that

a single-instance program is its own denial of service.)


Kernel objects should not be named unless you intend them to be shared,
because once you name them, you open yourself to
issues like this.
If you name a kernel object,
it must be because you want another process to access it,
not because you think giving it a name is kind of cute.


I suspect a lot of people give their kernel objects names
not because they intend them to be shared,
but because they see that the Create­Event
function has a lpName parameter,
and they think,
"Well, I guess giving it a name would be nice.
Maybe I can use it for debugging purposes or something,"
not realizing that giving it name actually introduced a bug.
Another possibility is that they see that there is a
lpName parameter and think,
"Gosh, I must give this event a name."


Kernel object names are optional.
Don't give them a name unless you intend them to be shared.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

