


	
        Get your hex wrench ready, because here comes the Ikea bicycle          Raymond Chen        
            
            May 29th, 20140 0
		
          Ikea säljer elcyklar. Click through for two-image slide show. 

 Ikea selling electric bicycles 
 Forget furniture. Ikea is now launching, that’s right, an electric bicycle. 
 It goes under the name People-Friendly and costs around 6000 SEK ($900 USD). 
 But only in Älmhult, Småland. 
 People-Friendly has already received three design awards, including the IF Design Award, according to Ikea’s press release. 
 What distinguishes it from other electric bicycles is that the battery is hidden in the frame. That makes it look like a regular bicycle as well as lowering the center of gravity and makes the bicycle more stable. 
 Performance is for the most part like other electric bicycles: It handles 6–7 Swedish miles (60–70 km, 35–45 US miles) on a charge, which takes 5–6 hours. The weight is 25 kg (55 pounds). The frame is aluminum and the engine is in front. 
 Only in Småland 
 The 5995 SEK cost of the bicycle may sound like a lot, but it’s inexpensive for an electric bicycle. 
 The biggest problem with the People-Friendly is that you can’t buy it at regular Ikea stores. 
 So far, the bicycle is sold only  at the bargain department of the Älmhult Ikea. 
 “Here is where we test new products. And this is a test product. We want to see how much interest there is and be sure that we can take care of the product, even after the purchase,” says Daniela Rogosic, press officer for Ikea Sweden. 
 She cannot say when it will begin being sold at general Ikea stores, but she confirms that interest has been strong for the bicycle during the month it has been available. 
 Do you have to assemble it yourself like the furniture? 
 “Yes, you put it together yourself in the classic Ikea way,” says Daniela Rogosic. 
 Fact sheet 

Price: Around 7200 SEK ($1100 USD) in Austria 
Material: Aluminum and steel (front fork) 
Gears: 3 
Weight: 25 kg 
Battery: 36 V 
Range: 60–70 km 
Charge time: 5–6 hours 
Top speed: N/A 
Engine: 36 V, forward 


 On the  Web site for the Älmhult bargain department, it describes the bicycle as a three-speed, available in both men’s and women’s styles. Limit one per customer. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

