


	
        What does Ctrl+Enter mean? It depends on whom you ask          Raymond Chen        
            
            December 1st, 20150 0
		
        One of my colleagues was baffled by why Outlook displayed this message: 


Microsoft Outlook


    ⚠     

    You pressed CTRL + ENTER.     
    Do you want to use CTRL + ENTER as a keyboard shortcut     for sending a message?     
    ☐ Do not show this message again.     






Yes No         





“I never understood the need for that dialog since I thought Ctrl+Enter meant, by convention, send this message. Then one day a former coworker expressed frustration at the dialog because Ctrl+Enter means soft return. He’s a few years older so perhaps its a generational thing? I do notice that the various web based email services differ in how they interpret Ctrl+Enter.” 
 Back in the old days, Ctrl+Enter meant “I’m hitting Enter, but I just want you to insert the Enter character, not execute anything.” 
From an MS-DOS prompt, Ctrl+Enter inserted a line break but did not execute the command. 
In a multi-line edit control on a dialog box, Ctrl+Enter inserts a carriage return into the edit control rather than executing the default button on the dialog box. 
But since nobody uses MS-DOS or dialog boxes any more, these historical meanings are gradually being lost, and Ctrl+Enter is pretty much a wide open hotkey that anybody can assign whatever meaning to it they like. (For extra confusion: Some programs use Shift+Enter to insert a carriage return into a field.) 
Someday, people won’t even remember what Ctrl+Insert and Shift+Insert do. (I still use the first one when working in WinDbg, since the modern hotkey doesn’t work; it means “break into the debugger.”) 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

