


	
        Is it really a prank if the victim doesn’t realize there’s a prank going on?          Raymond Chen        
            
            April 1st, 20160 0
		
        One of my friends pranked a colleague by surreptitiously putting a program in the Startup group. This program opened a network socket and awaited further instructions. 
Things you could tell the program to do: 

Create a thread and put it into a 100% CPU loop. 
Allocate a megabyte of memory (hey, that was a lot back in the day)     and go into a loop accessing every byte of memory     over and over again. 
Display a message on the screen. 
Play a beep. 
Perhaps some other pranky things, I forget. 
My friend told the program to create a thread and peg the CPU, and his colleague didn’t notice. 
Create a second thread. 
Still no reaction. 
Allocate a megabyte of memory. 
Two megabytes. 
Four megabytes. 
Still nothing. 
Beep a few times for no apparent reason. 
No reaction. 
My friend now decided to pull out all the stops. Create eight threads, each in a CPU spin loop. Allocate another 16 megabytes of memory. Beep five times in a row. Display a message box with a nonsensical error message. (I forget exactly what it was. Let’s say it’s “Printer out of bamboo. Get more bamboo. MOAR!”) 
My friend’s colleague shrugged and dismissed the error message. 
I think my friend had to display a message box that said “Look behind you” before his colleague finally clued in that he was being pranked. 
So you tell me. Was this a successful prank or not, if the victim didn’t even realize that he was being pranked? 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

