


	
        Even if you modify a high contrast theme so it isn’t quite so high-contrast, it’s still a high contrast theme          Raymond Chen        
            
            July 7th, 20160 0
		
        A customer liaison sent a question to the shell team. 

Subject: Assistance [REG:628318530717959] 
Our customer has created a custom theme by editing one of the standard High Contrast themes, but it doesn’t seem to be working quite right. For example, Internet Explorer doesn’t show Web page background images. How can we fix this? Details from the customer are attached. 

This sounds like a customer is tinkering around doing some personalization, and now they’re using their “unlimited support” contract to get some help to get their super-l33t theme to look even more awesome. In the attachment, the customer explained that the default is so plain, so they took the High Contrast theme and made it more colorful. Personally, I think their new theme looks hideous, with garish colors everywhere, but hey, Hot Dog Stand is a thing, so who am I to say. 
Anyway, the reason that Internet Explorer doesn’t show Web page background images is that you are using a high contrast theme, albeit one that maybe doesn’t have as much contrast as originally intended. And since it is a high contrast theme, applications will ask, “Is a high contrast theme active (SPI_GET­HIGH­CONTRAST)?”, and the operating system will say “Yup”. Or they’ll ask “Should I show overlapping content (SPI_GET­DISABLE­OVERLAPPED­CONTENT)?” and the operating system will say “Nope.” and applications will say, “Oh, sorry. I’ll better remove background images, textured backgrounds, watermarks, and any other content that would interfere with the primary content. I hope that helps.” 
In other words: The reason the backgrounds are gone is that you started with an accessibility theme, so you’re getting all the accessibility side effects. If you want to create your Hot Dog Stand theme, and you don’t want the accessibility baggage, then start with a theme that isn’t an accessibility theme. 
Bonus reading: Building a more accessible web platform. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

