


	
        What does it mean for a window to be Unicode?          Raymond Chen        
            
            September 6th, 20180 0
		
        The Is­Window­Unicode function reports whether the current window procedure expects Unicode window messages. What specifically does this mean? 
It means that messages like WM_CHAR will report characters as Unicode code units rather than as ANSI code units. 
Okay, so what determines whether a window procedure receives Unicode messages? 
When a window is created, its initial window procedure comes from the class registration. If the class was registered with Register­Class[Ex]W, then it is a Unicode window procedure; otherwise it was registered with Register­Class[Ex]A and is an ANSI window procedure. 
If a window is subclassed with a function pointer, then the new window procedure is Unicode if it was set with Set­Window­Long­PtrW(GWLP_WNDPROC) and ANSI if it was set with Set­Window­Long­PtrA(GWLP_WNDPROC). 
As we saw some time ago, Get­Window­Long­Ptr(GWLP_WNDPROC) returns a thunk if you use the ANSI version but the current window procedure is Unicode, or vice versa. Suppose the window procedure is Unicode and you call Get­Window­Long­PtrA(GWLP_WNDPROC). This will return you a thunk, and if you later set that thunk back as the window procedure with Set­Window­Long­PtrA(GWLP_WNDPROC), then the original Unicode window procedure is restored, and the window is a Unicode window again. 
Note that calling Set­Window­Long­PtrA(GWLP_WNDPROC) can result in a window procedure that is Unicode. 
As a window message travels from one window procedure to another window procedure (via Call­Window­Proc), the character set may flip between Unicode and ANSI. The Is­Window­Unicode function tells you only about the window’s current window procedure. 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

