


	
        All sorts of bad things happen when we disable the Task Scheduler service, is that bad?          Raymond Chen        
            
            October 2nd, 20180 1
		
        A customer disabled the Task Scheduler service by applying group policy to set Task Scheduler’s startup mode to Off. When they did that, they found that a lot of stuff stopped working. For example, the Start menu would hang for several minutes. Search stopped working. “Any idea what tasks could be causing the issue?” 
The customer liaison added “Obviously this is a bad idea, but I couldn’t find any official statement to that effect.” 
Aha, the customer is looking for documentation that  explicitly states that a bad idea is a bad idea, presumably because they want to shift the blame for their bad idea to Microsoft. 
We responded that a bad idea is a bad idea, even if it’s not written down anywhere. 
In the meantime, the customer liaison was able to find official documentation that confirmed that a bad idea is a bad idea! 
Guidance on disabling system services on Windows Server 2016 with Desktop Experience lists a bunch of services and what Microsoft has to say about disabling that service. 

Task Scheduler


Service description
Enables a user to configure and schedule automated tasks     on this computer.     The service also hosts multiple Windows system-critical tasks.     If this service is stopped or disabled,     these tasks will not be run at their scheduled times.     If this service is disabled,     any services that explicitly depend on it will fail to start.     


Service name
Schedule


Installation
Always installed


StartType
Automatic


Recommendation
No guidance


Each service on the system is categorized as follows: 

Should Disable:     A security-focused enterprise will most likely     prefer to disable this service and forego its functionality     (see additional details below).
OK to Disable:     This service provides functionality     that is useful to some but not all enterprises,     and security-focused enterprises that don’t use it     can safely disable it.
Do Not Disable:     Disabling this service will impact essential functionality     or prevent specific roles or features from functioning correctly.     Therefore it should not be disabled.
(No guidance):     The impact of disabling these services has not been fully evaluated.     Therefore, the default configuration of these services     should not be changed.


(Emphasis mine.) 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Tips/Support
	

