


	
        How do I fill out the Canadian eTA if I have a green card with no expiration date?          Raymond Chen        
            
            August 7th, 20194 0
		
        Entry into Canada by air generally requires an Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA). Canadian and United States citizens are exempt from the eTA,¹ but United States permanent residents still require one. (The permanent resident card is commonly known as a green card because  the original version was green.)
There is a special form for green card holders, which asks you for the nine-digit green card number and expiration date.
I was helping a relative fill out the eTA application online and discovered a problem: The form asks for the green card’s expiration date. Green cards issued between 1977 and 1989 have no expiration date. If you leave the expiration date blank, the form rejects the application.
When I asked for help from the Canadian Border Services Agency, the response was that I should enter the expiration date of the traveler’s passport.
Another question on the form asks for the nine-digit green card number. Cards issued in the 1970’s and 1980’s have only eight digits, and again, the form rejects the application if the number of digits is “wrong”.
That one I was able to figure out by myself: Pad the field with leading zeros.
Bonus chatter: Starting in 2021, United States citizens traveling to EU countries will require pre-clearance from the European Travel and Information Authorisation System (ETIAS).
I’ll be on vacation in London and Paris for the next two weeks (no ETIAS required yet), but I’ve left the blog running on autopilot. Hopefully, the Super-H series will put people to sleep so they won’t even realize I was away.
¹ But that doesn’t mean you don’t need any documentation at all! You still need your passport or  Nexus.
 

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

