


	
        2019 mid-year link clearance          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 28th, 20192 0
		
        
 The screenplay for Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse is online.

Sony was kind enough to make our #Spiderverse script available online. Here it is if you’re interested. https://t.co/CO2EQCKdD3
— rodneyrothman (@rodneyrothman) December 29, 2018

Apparently there’s a  Fawlty Towers Live Themed Dinner Show, a dinner performance which incorporates scenes from the classic television series, under license from John Cleese and Connie Booth. There is also an apparently much more popular version, known as  Faulty [sic] Towers: The Dining Experience, which uses original scripts in an attempt to sidestep copyright issues.
If you can’t get enough nostalgia, there’s also  Austen’s Pride, a musical version of Pride and Prejudice, coming to Seattle this autumn.
 Arkanoid is now a solved game: Perfect play calculated via brute force.
 Physicist creates remarkable tennis-ball towers, including one made from 46 balls. Ah, recreational science.
 I found 2 identical packs of Skittles among 468 packs with total 27,740 Skittles: Ah, recreational mathematics.
Jacob Williamson  handicaps the Scripps National Spelling Bee. I am not making this up. This year’s bee ran past midnight, ending when the organizers  ran out of words. I am not making this up. The organizers declared all eight remaining entrants co-winners. Williamson proclaimed this to be  Armageddon: “God is dead, and we have killed him.” He places a large piece of blame on  SpellPundit, an app to help spellers master the hardest-to-spell words in the English language.
You love mechanical computer keyboards, don’t you? Of course you do. The seventh semi-annual  Seattle Mechanical Keyboard Meetup takes place  July 27, 2019 at Seattle Pacific University.
 Clippy: The Unauthorized Biography.
 A conspiracy to kill IE6. I want to see more stories like this.
 Racing Object Construction: a debugging tale.
 The Mystery Of The 15-Minute-Long GC Pauses in a .NET Windows Service.
MSBuild log viewer for debugging your vxcproj files.
Why does the Visual Studio C++ standard library use _STD_BEGIN … _STD_END instead of namespace std { … }?

And the obligatory plug for my video appearances.

 What was your first interview at Microsoft like?
 What was your first project at Microsoft?
 Why not reset the build number after a major release?
 Why are some blue screens green?
 The bug that was too cool to fix.

The One Dev Question folks even created  a playlist of all my videos, which is either handy or frightening.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

