


	
        If you can use GUIDs to reference files, why not use them to remember “recently used” files so they can survive renames and moves?          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 12th, 201911 0
		
         You can ask for a GUID identifier for a file, and use that GUID to access the file later. You can even  recover a (perhaps not the) file name from the GUID.
 David Trapp wishes  programs would use GUIDs to reference files so that references to recently used files can survive renames and moves.
Be careful what you wish for.
It is a common pattern to save a file by performing two steps.

Create a temporary file with the new contents.
Rename the original file to a *.bak or some other name.
Rename the temporary file to the original name.
(optional) Delete the *.bak file.

Programs use this multi-step process so that an the old copy of the file remains intact until the new file has been saved successfully. Once that’s done, they swap the new file into place.
Unfortunately, this messes up your GUID-based accounting system.
If you tracked the file by its GUID, then here’s what you see:

Create a temporary file, which gets a new GUID.
Rename the original file. It retains its GUID but has a new name.
Rename the temporary file file. It retains its GUID but has a new name.

The GUID that you remembered does not refer to the new file; it refers to the old file. Even worse, if the program took the optional step of deleting the renamed original, you now have a GUID that refers to a deleted file, which means that when you try to open it, the operation will fail.
Programs can avoid this problem by using the Replace­File function to promote the temporary file. The Replace­File function preserves the file identifier, among other things.
In practice, use of the Replace­File function is not as widespread as you probably would like, so using only GUIDs to track files will technically track the file, but may not track the file you intend. Because people still think of the file name as the identifier for a file, not its GUID.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

