


	
        Oh no, it’s inspection time again          Raymond Chen        
            
            April 1st, 201910 0
		
        I recreate below a memo attached to the office doors of some occupants of the Microsoft RedWest campus fourteen years ago today. 

From: Reel Estate & Faculties Executive NotificationsSent: Friday, April 1, 2005To: People in REDW-A; People in REDW-B; People in REDW-C; People in REDW-D; People in REDW-ESubject: BUILDING NOTICE: RedWest campus – Office InspectionImportance: High 

Redwest Campus
Office Inspection
April 4th, 2005
7:00am to 7:00pm (Pacific Time)
Duration: 1 day

It is Inspection Time again! As every five years, a Microsoft Executive, a Microsoft VP and a State of Washington Health & Safety Department representative, will inspect randomly selected workplaces in RedWest buildings A, B, C, D, & E. 
YOUR OFFICE HAS BEEN SELECTEDFOR THIS INSPECTION 
Occupant impact: 
MSN has coordinated with the representatives of the buildings to confirm this date is acceptable. 

This inspection will impact randomly selected building occupants.     Inspections will be conducted     during normal work hours and your cooperation is required     to minimize the impact. There will be     some minimal noise associated with this inspection.
Inspections logs will be available upon request.

Actions Required: IMPORTANT READ HERE 
You are required to return your office to the original configuration by Monday 7:00am (Pacific Time). This includes but it is not limited to: 

Removing clocks, posters and calendars from walls
Removing personal photos and photo frames from desks and walls
Removing stickers from doors and windows
Returning non safety compliant light fixtures to your Admin
Untangling all computer cables
Making sure your desk is not cluttered with paper,     files, office supplies (the Washington State     Safety Law allows workplace desks to have a     25% maximum occupied space)
Storing all office supplies in your cabinet drawer     (all cabinet drawers should remain UNLOCKED)
Retuming all stored bulk supplies (such as paper reams)     to your floor’s Copy Room
Tuming off all unnecessary lights end equipments     (printers, scanners, etc.)
Steam-cleaning carpets and dusting desks and window’s sills

Schedule: 
Inspections will be performed in selected offices throughout the whole day, starting with the first floor of each buil ing in alphabetical order. 
We appreciate your understanding and cooperation in this matter. If this inspection will impact critical business operations, or if you have any questions or concems, please contact a-fday. 
Reel Estate & Faculties Executive Team 


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

