


	
        2020 mid-year link clearance          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 30th, 20205 0
		
        Here we go again.


These  mundane Hallowe’en costumes are brilliantly creative.


Happy Halloween Eve! Its time for another year of my all-time favourite festivity, Tokyos mundane Halloween costume party, where folks dress up as an utterly normal and boring thing
Here are my favourite costumes from the 2019 event this past weekend
— Melissa Martin (@DoubleEmMartin) October 30, 2019
My favorites are the  couple that just got into a fight at Disneyland and now have a tense atmosphere between them (the woman’s facial expression is perfect), and  person who missed the garbage pick-up. I can only imagine how tiring it would be to be dressed as a  person whose job is to make little kids smile for pictures all night.

 Finally, A Practical Guide for Roadside Wildflower Viewing. You see, the problem with field guides is that they assume you are on foot and can stop to examine the minute details of each flow. But what if you’re whizzing past at highway speeds? Enter  A Field Guide to Roadside Wildflowers At Full Speed.
 An analysis of the Lego City deep space rocket. Serious scientific analysis for a scientific age.  The discussion on HN is also wonderful.
I just spent 25 minutes  watching somebody solve a Sudoku puzzle with just two starting squares. It is amazing.
Never Surrender, the  Galaxy Quest documentary is now streaming on Amazon Prime, if that’s your thing.
 How special register groups invaded computer dictionaries for decades.

Bye-bye Bedlam.  Office 365 Microsoft 365 has deployed reply-all storm protection.

For #ThrowbackThursday, we have Raymond Chen talking about the Bedlam DL3 email storm that happened way back in October 1997.
(And yes, he mentions cat videos).#BedlamDL3#EmailStorm pic.twitter.com/6Tf3PODcMA
— OneDevMinute Videos (@OneDevMinute) April 19, 2018

 A Little Order: Delving into the STL sorting algorithms: Fred Tingaud discovers that when asked to find the median of an array and sort the elements less than the median, std::partial_sort is three times slower than std::nth_element followed by std::sort. So why does std::partial_sort even exist if it sucks at its one job?
 The Faces of Microsoft: The history of fonts at Microsoft.
 Thirty Years of TrueType Fonts: A retrospective by Greg Hitchcock, one of the key players in bringing TrueType to Windows (as you no doubt learned from the first article).
In a comment to my earlier discussion of  why MS-DOS puts an int 20h at byte 0 of the COM file program segment, I noted that at offset 5 is a jump instruction.  Jim Nelson points out that  this jump instruction deserves an entire article by itself, and fortunately he also provided a link  to that article. It’s a wild tale of deception, lies, and  the A20 line.

 GW-BASIC source code has been released.
  BILL GATES WROTE A LOT OF STUFF.
PAUL ALLEN WROTE A LOT OF OTHER STUFF AND FAST CODE.
MONTE DAVIDOFF WROTE THE MATH PACKAGE (F4I.MAC).
You might also have noticed at the bottom of the announcement an internal Microsoft department name used in public communication, a mistake common to those who spend most of their time inside the Microsoft bubble.  CELA stands for Corporate, External, & Legal Affairs. In other words, it’s the legal department.

I noted some time ago that  the Windows 98 welcome music was commissioned to be 30 seconds long. A reddit user  tracked down the author from a brief mention in the production notes for  the movie Stick It: “Mike [Simpson] also composed the “Welcome to Windows 98″ theme for Microsoft.” Read on to find out what happened to the full version.
 How to share a PCH file among multiple Visual Studio projects.


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

