


	
        SEO spammers don’t really understand who they spammed          Raymond Chen        
            
            March 24th, 20217 0
		
        It doesn’t happen any more, but back in the day, a piece of SEO spam would occasionally sneak through the corporate mail filters. Here’s an excerpt from one. (Long version)

We had gone through your website:  www.microsoft.com Would you be  interested in a possible Website Designing and Search Engine – SEO of the site or additional features that might benefit the overall usability and user experience which usually leads to better sales. Google’s research data shows over 85% of people search for your products/services through search engines and buy as well. These statistics also influence other channels and buying medium as well.
your [sic] website is not on first page on Google for most of the relevant and user oriented keywords pertaining to your domain so I was wondering if you would be interested in getting Search engine optimization done for your website.

Yes, those styles are taken from the original, which may give you some sort of idea what results to expect. (Maybe they honed their skills on GeoCities.)
It’s funny that they send their pitch to large multinational corporations, as if those corporations don’t have an entire department devoted to maintaining and optimizing the corporate Web site. Maybe I should ask for a quote?
Funnier would be is if they had sent the same spam to Google. (Anybody from Google want to confirm? Were you tempted to write back?)
Here’s another.
While studying your website I couldn’t help noticing it lacked any significant ranking in Google.
I think that already hurts their position. Apparently, they are not very good at studying Web sites, if they came to the conclusion that microsoft.com has no significant ranking in Google.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

