


	
        What does this mean? The caller specified wait timed out before the operation completed because a host termination is in queued          Raymond Chen        
            
            September 20th, 20218 0
		
        So your program is running along, minding its own business, and then it crashes with exception 0x80070bfe = “The caller specified wait timed out before the operation completed because a host termination is in queued”, or possibly 0x80070bfd = “The caller specified wait timed out before the operation completed.” This is completely gibberish. What does it mean? I don’t remember specifying any timeout, and I don’t know what a host termination is.
It means that you called Core­Application.Create­New­View while your app was suspending or resuming.
This particular error is generated deep inside the windowing infrastructure code, and the problem manifests itself in an internal timeout. The inner low-level component reports that an operation timed out, and that’s the reason why the error message talks about a timeout.
This error is then propagated all the way up the chain back to the application without anybody ever realizing, “Hey, this error may not make sense to the person I’m reporting it to.” The error message made sense at the point of origination, but by the time the error reaches the application, the original context of the error is long gone, and the message makes no sense unless you’re wearing windowing infrastructure-colored glasses.
Sorry.
Bonus chatter: Sometimes the error manifests itself in error 0X87B20C08, which doesn’t even have an associated message!

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

