


	
        How do I customize the color of the Windows blue screen?          Raymond Chen        
            
            February 1st, 20227 0
		
        In videos on his YouTube channel  Dave’s Garage, my longtime former colleague Dave Plummer discusses his home computer projects and has a side gig digging into Windows history. In early 2021, he discussed  the history of the Windows blue screen.
A correction to Dave’s video: At 9:23, he says that I was responsible for the Windows 3.1 blue screen. It wasn’t until Windows 95 that I took over responsibility for blue screen messages from the original author. I don’t remember off-hand who the original author was, but I can guess: The 32-bit virtual machine manager was written by basically three people, one of whom had a unique coding style, and it is my recollection that the code that displays blue screen messages was written in that style, so I have a pretty good idea who it was that wrote the original code to display Windows blue screen messages.
Mind you, the code that displays blue screen messages merely displays the message. It doesn’t decide when to display the message, or what the message text should be. That’s the job of other components.
Windows 3.1 had configuration options to let you change the color of the blue screen messages. I dimly recall being told that the critical error message was originally red, but it was changed to blue for readability, as well as to make it less dramatic. My guess is that Windows 3.1 left an escape hatch in case they needed to change the color again.
Those configuration options were not carried forward into Windows NT. The color is hard-coded to blue, or green if you’re running a prerelease build.
But all is not entirely lost. One of Mark Russinovich’s party tricks is changing the color of the blue screen. He does this by doing it the Mark Russinovich way: He installs a driver that patches the hard-coded value in the kernel.
He made this party trick available for download and gave it the very Mark Russinovich name  Not My Fault.
Totally not supported by Windows, but if you need to perform a party trick, you can use Mark’s.
Bonus reading:

 Who wrote the text for the Ctrl+Alt+Del dialog in Windows 3.1?
 Steve Ballmer did not write the text for the blue screen of death.
 I wrote the blue screen of death, sort of.
 A lie repeated often enough becomes the truth: The continuing saga of the Windows 3.1 blue screen of death (which, by the way, was never called that)
 What did Windows 3.1 do when you hit Ctrl+Alt+Del?
 Who implemented the Windows NT blue screen of death? And why is it blue?


        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged History
	

