


	
        2023 mid-year link clearance          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 30th, 20233 2
		
        <link-clearance>

 Limited Audience Jokes are jokes that appeal only to a limited audience. Of the ones on that page, the one that I enjoyed was “What’s an anagram of Banach-Tarski?”
In  Hi Everybody! A Bad Medicine Podcast, medical doctors discuss the medical accuracy of scenes in television and movies. The podcast’s title is a reference to the character of Dr. Nick Riviera from The Simpsons, and the host of the podcast introduces himself as “You may remember me from such podcasts as…” with a different joke podcast name each time. This is a catch phrase of another Simpsons character, Troy McClure. I hadn’t appreciated the work that goes into coming up with a new joke for each episode until I did the same thing for my Windows Confidential column.
An amateur village cricket team found themselves two players short for a match and recruited from a nearby pub. One of their recruits brought a companion, Twitter user enbyinjail, whom they assumed to be his girlfriend, but who they didn’t realize played cricket in university and currently plays on a “respected London woman’s team”.  Enbyinjail waits for an appropriate moment for the reveal. (Unrolled thread.) Warning: Foul language.
 Microsoft Coffee: The Last Corporate Prank Before PR Ruined Everything.
Remember the  Project Enzyme conference announcement? The one that provides no information about what Project Enzyme is yet still wants you to attend? Well, it seems that my complaints have finally paid off. This year’s Project Enzyme conference announcement includes a two-sentence paragraph at the end: “What is Project Enzyme? It’s ⟦brief description⟧.”
 The Strange Case of GetEnvironmentStringsA, a deep dive.
TimDbg, the blog of Tim Misiak, about debugging and processor emulation.
 Nobody Can Program Correctly: Lessons From 20 Years of Debugging C++ Code, by Sebastian Theophil.
The recording of  my 2023 Build presentation (uncreatively titled The Old New Thing) is now available. Sorry most of the frame is filled with a “Let’s chat” slide. Clint and I didn’t know that’s what was going to get recorded, instead of the primary camera.

</link-clearance>

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

