


	
        GetQueueStatus and the queue state          Raymond Chen        
            
            September 25th, 20231 2
		
        Some time ago, we learned that the Msg­Wait­For­Multiple­Objects function  waits only for new events to arrive. In particular, this means that when Msg­Wait­For­Multiple­Objects tells you that an event has arrived, you need to process all of those events before looping back and calling Msg­Wait­For­Multiple­Objects again, because Msg­Wait­For­Multiple­Objects isn’t going to tell you about those old events.¹
It so happens that the Get­Queue­Status function also manipulates the queue status. Each time you call Get­Queue­Status to check a flag, that flag is marked as no longer “new” in the queue status, in the same way that Msg­Wait­For­Multiple­Objects marks the flag as no longer “new” when it wakes up due to a queue status change.
This behavior of Get­Queue­Status is very surprising, because you don’t expect a function called “Get” to have destructive side effects.
The Get­Queue­Status function returns the queue status in two forms, packed into a single 32-bit integer. The low-order 16 bits contain the new queue status bits (the queue status changes since the last time you asked about them), whereas the high-order 16 bits contain the cumulative queue status bits (all the status bits, both old and new). This is explained in the “Return value” section of the documentation, but it’s something that you may read without fully comprehending the consequences.
Therefore, if you want to know if there is (say) any raw input available, either old or new, you need to write
if (HIWORD(GetQueueStatus(QS_RAWINPUT)) & QS_RAWINPUT)

And if you want to drain the raw input, you should use a while loop to keep processing the raw input until the bit goes clear in the high word.
The fact that Get­Queue­Status is a destructive operation is one of those hidden gotchas of the window manager. This sort of atomic “test and clear” operation is common inside the window manager, so they exposed a function that let applications do it too, using the same name that the window manager used internally, so you might say that this function was named while wearing window manager colored glasses: The fact that this is a “test and clear” function is obvious if you work on the window manager, and completely surprising if you don’t.
¹ The Msg­Wait­For­Multiple­Objects­Ex function lets you pass the MWMO_INPUT­AVAILABLE flag to mean, “Also consider old events that haven’t yet been processed.”

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Code
	

