


	
        Starting on the other side of this airtight hatchway: Running a program that leaks memory          Raymond Chen        
            
            November 14th, 20235 2
		
        A security vulnerability report came in that said
In the most recent Windows Insider Build, the ping program has a small memory leak. This is normally not a problem because the ping program runs for less than a minute before exiting, but if you run ping -t, then it will ping the destination machine indefinitely until killed. This can be used as a denial of service if you just start a ping -t and let it run. It leaks about a megabyte a day.
While it’s true that you could use it as a denial of service, it’s also not a very effective one, given that the memory leak is “only” a megabyte a day.
Furthermore, in order for an attacker to exploit this, they need to gain the ability to run programs so they can run ping -t and giggle with glee as the program slowly leaks memory.¹
Since this presupposes that the attacker can run a program with arbitrary command lines, the attacker may as well use something that consumes memory at a far faster pace:
for /L %i in (1,1,1000000) do start eventvwr.exe

This  launches a million copies of Event Viewer, which will certainly mess up the system faster than a one-megabyte-a-day leak.
What we have is a bug but not a security bug. The development team fixed the memory leak, so this bug didn’t exist for very long.
¹ In practice, the program will have to leak several gigabytes of memory before the system will start to suffer, so the attacker is in for a wait of several years before their denial-of-service attack finally bears fruit and the system owner will have to either kill the rogue ping process or reboot the system. “With this fiendish attack, I can mildly inconvenience somebody a dozen years from now!” (Assuming they leave the system running without rebooting.)

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Other
	

