


	
        2024 mid-year link clearance          Raymond Chen        
            
            June 28th, 202411 3
		
        Hey, look at this, we’re just about halfway through the year.

 Mr. Plinkett’s Super Happy Fun Star Trek: The Next Generation Mistakes Video. Is this a super-nerdy video? Yes. Did I watch all of it? Also yes.
 Pangeos Terayacht: An $8 billion Engineering Disaster. Adam Something rips the Pangeos Terayacht (which somehow had 15 minutes of fame) to shreds.
 Stellarium Web Engine is an open-source JavaScript planetarium library. You can play with it online.
 The Value of Check-It-Yourself Science. Theoretical physicist Matt Strassler provides several examples of how you can confirm various facts about the solar system by using direct observation and high school mathematics. For example, he  estimates the distance to Jupiter using his eyes, a protractor, and a pocket calculator, and in a similar fashion  calculates the distance from the earth to the sun.
 What word begins with “y” and looks like an axe? A deep dive into a children’s ball.
 Taking the deepest possible breath: CathodeRayDude investigates Phoenix Hyperspace, a miniature (Linux-based) operating system which runs a small number of programs and which (here’s the scary part) can live-swap with a running copy of Windows. How did they do this? Maybe you’re better off not knowing. Oh, who am I kidding. Read it and weep.
 Hell never ends on x86: CathodeRayDude investigates HP QuickWeb, and it’s even more insane than Phoenix Hyperspace.
 The Itanic Saga chronicles the history of the ill-fated Itanium processor. If yu want to see more details of the Itanium instruction set architecture,  you can read my processor overview.
Alex Chan investigates the claim that the largest possible PDF is a 381 kilometer square. Turns out you can go bigger.  Much bigger.
Darek Mihocka  dives deep into ARM64EC.
 Acquire and Release Fences Don’t Work the Way You’d Expect.
Do you miss WordPad? Fortunately, the source code was released (MIT license) as a sample app. You can find a copy online.

And the obligatory self-serving plug: It appears that the Windows Dev Docs team created a short link that takes you to a playlist of many of my One Dev Question videos: https://aka.ms/ODQ-RaymondChen.

        
                

        
		
                

            
            
                
                    Raymond Chen                
                
            
            

                
        
            Follow 
          
                
            
        
                
            
    
   

        

            

            
       
        
	




	

		Tagged Non-Computer
	

