GL  December 18, 2024
· Edited

  0  Collapse this comment
Copy link
I'm confused by the description of how Git connects file history...
> To determine the file history connections for a file between a commit and its parent or parents, git looks for the file in each parent commit at the same path. If it’s found there, then git considers the file to have been modified in place with respect to that parent. If it’s not present in the parent commit at the same path, then git looks to see if the file is similar¹ to a file that is present in the child commit but missing in the parent. If it...Read moreI’m confused by the description of how Git connects file history…
> To determine the file history connections for a file between a commit and its parent or parents, git looks for the file in each parent commit at the same path. If it’s found there, then git considers the file to have been modified in place with respect to that parent. If it’s not present in the parent commit at the same path, then git looks to see if the file is similar¹ to a file that is present in the child commit but missing in the parent. If it finds one, then it considers the file to have moved. Otherwise, the file is considered to have been deleted.
I failed to parse the above, and tried a correction below:
> To determine the file history connections for a file between a commit and its parent or parents, for each file `f` in the child commit (this is how I read your description), Git looks for the file in each parent commit at the same path. If it’s found there, then Git considers the file to have been modified in place with respect to that parent. If it’s not present in the parent commit at the same path, then Git looks to see if the file `f` is similar to a file `g` that is present in the parent commit but missing in the child. If it finds one, then it considers the file `f` to have moved from `g`. Otherwise, the file is considered to have been deleted. Otherwise, the file `f` has no connection to this parent.  For every file in the parent that is not determined to have moved to any file in the child, the file in the parent is considered to have been deleted. If a file in the child has no connection to any parent, it is considered to have been newly created.
Could you explain whether the correction is correct, or how to parse the original description?
Read less







Raymond Chen Author
December 18, 2024


  0  Collapse this comment
Copy link
Yeah, I meant to say “considered to have been newly-created”. Fixed.