sechelé delaruse  August 29, 2024


  0  Collapse this comment
Copy link
yes i see.
one should venture here that when os/2 came out it made the cover of the byte magazine, and one could also venture here that some of us looked up from our sun (well the university's sun) workstations and realized that there were good reasons for this
such as,
- the growing market concensus of a need to move desktop ui away from singleton application display contexts
- the admission that the x86 segmented mode had to be deprecated at the os layer  in favor of as flat an address space as possible, with as much memory as...Read moreyes i see.
one should venture here that when os/2 came out it made the cover of the byte magazine, and one could also venture here that some of us looked up from our sun (well the university’s sun) workstations and realized that there were good reasons for this
such as,
– the growing market concensus of a need to move desktop ui away from singleton application display contexts
– the admission that the x86 segmented mode had to be deprecated at the os layer  in favor of as flat an address space as possible, with as much memory as the customer could afford to buy
– the need to move operating systems off floppy disks and end all the attendant swapping
i know we could go on
it’s unfortunate that two market giants met at a friction point called os/2, but the work can certainly be appraised on its merits, which one argues do exist
regards
Read less







Rez Zircon  August 27, 2024


  0  Collapse this comment
Copy link
Way back before electricity, the MSDOS5 (almost 6) source got leaked. It made entertaining reading… there are a lot of comments on the, uh, personal worth of IBM’s coders, easily found by searching for profanity.





Don Hacherl  August 27, 2024


  2  Collapse this comment
Copy link
I remember during the OS/2 project that IBM performed a "vendor relations survey" about its relationship with Microsoft.  The Microsoft engineers basically used every known synonym for "incompetent" to describe their views of the IBM engineers they dealt with, while the IBM engineers' main complaint was the the Microsofties were "arrogant".  Those results came back to us at MS and the common response was "yeah, ok, I'll concede to arrogance, but you guys are still incompetent".
And you're underselling SteveB's awe inspiring memory.  When a co-worker asked Steve to guess my (deceptive looking) age he immediately gave the...Read moreI remember during the OS/2 project that IBM performed a “vendor relations survey” about its relationship with Microsoft.  The Microsoft engineers basically used every known synonym for “incompetent” to describe their views of the IBM engineers they dealt with, while the IBM engineers’ main complaint was the the Microsofties were “arrogant”.  Those results came back to us at MS and the common response was “yeah, ok, I’ll concede to arrogance, but you guys are still incompetent”.
And you’re underselling SteveB’s awe inspiring memory.  When a co-worker asked Steve to guess my (deceptive looking) age he immediately gave the correct number, only to then confess that he had based his answer on what my resume had stated for the year of my high school graduation.  He had presumably  seen that resume once, maybe eight months earlier.
Read less