Igor Levicki  February 22, 2025
· Edited

  3  Collapse this comment
Copy link
“But the plans were on display…”
“On display? I eventually had to go down to the cellar to find them.”
“That’s the display department.”
“With a flashlight.”
“Ah, well, the lights had probably gone.”
“So had the stairs.”
“But look, you found the notice, didn’t you?”
“Yes,” said Arthur, “yes I did. It was on display in the bottom of a locked filing cabinet stuck in a disused lavatory with a sign on the door saying ‘Beware of the Leopard.”
― Douglas Adams, The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy





Shawn Van Ness  February 19, 2025


  1  Collapse this comment
Copy link
> The page you are sent to is completely empty except for a single button that says Statements. Click it.
I think at this point, I would begin to worry I’ve been click-jacked, and close my browser..!
I don’t know which provider you’re referring to, but a compounding factor is when these companies register completely generic, nonrecognizable / nontrustworthy domain names — I think Fidelity and Morgan Stanley were both guilty of that.   (netbenefits.com?  benefitsconnect.com?  something like that, I forget which was which)





許恩嘉  February 19, 2025
· Edited

  0  Collapse this comment
Copy link
Hi, Raymond Chen and readers of This Blog:
I want to share a story about an application relying on the internal behavior of the system.
One day, a customer found that his desktop looked different from usual, unusually simple —— the dynamic wallpaper application he installed, which claimed to play Miku's Ievan Polkka animation on the desktop, was invalid! Then he found an error message on a console window: "Failed to get wallpaper window!"
The customer immediately contacted the developer of the application and speculated that this was caused by the Windows 11 version 24H2 update he installed yesterday.
The...Read moreHi, Raymond Chen and readers of This Blog:
I want to share a story about an application relying on the internal behavior of the system.
One day, a customer found that his desktop looked different from usual, unusually simple —— the dynamic wallpaper application he installed, which claimed to play Miku’s Ievan Polkka animation on the desktop, was invalid! Then he found an error message on a console window: “Failed to get wallpaper window!”
The customer immediately contacted the developer of the application and speculated that this was caused by the Windows 11 version 24H2 update he installed yesterday.
The developer responded: Well, it looks like Windows has modified the window used to display the wallpaper switching animation. Give me an hour to find its new location.
It turns out that the window which application was trying to find had been optimized away by Windows, and now it only appeared during the display switching wallpaper fade animation, and then was immediately destroyed, rather than staying in place so that others could draw on it as in the past.
The moral of the story is: Never rely on the internal behavior of the system, it really may break after the next Windows update instead of the next Windows version.
The implementation principle of this dynamic wallpaper application: https://www.codeproject.com/Articles/856020/Draw-behind-Desktop-Icons-in-Windows
The continuation of the story:
The author of the application had anticipated that this might happen (He is a reader of The Old New Thing), so he wrote two versions of the application. Version B relied heavily on the system’s internal behavior but had better performance, and version A had poorer performance and effects but was less dependent on the system’s internal behavior. Version A still worked. (By the way, version A will fail if the desktop becomes a hardware accelerated window, which makes it impossible to use BitBlt to read pixels to make a maskBitmap)
Read less







Claudio Andre Heckler  February 19, 2025


  0  Collapse this comment
Copy link
Every now and then I download statements from my retirement account.  In the spreadsheet where I track performance I have the steps written out, just as you mention, because it is HARD.
Well, just yesterday I had to call their support line (and was glad to find a human after only 4 menu levels) because one of the documents have moved and I could not locate it after searching for some time.  The agent had to show me the way, it was hidden behind a menu option that had nothing to do with that particular document.  Sigh!
Needless to...Read moreEvery now and then I download statements from my retirement account.  In the spreadsheet where I track performance I have the steps written out, just as you mention, because it is HARD.
Well, just yesterday I had to call their support line (and was glad to find a human after only 4 menu levels) because one of the documents have moved and I could not locate it after searching for some time.  The agent had to show me the way, it was hidden behind a menu option that had nothing to do with that particular document.  Sigh!
Needless to say, my instructions are now updated, so I should be covered for a while.
Read less