pete.d  December 28, 2020


  0  Collapse this comment
Copy link
"These notifications were named while wearing taskbar-colored glasses."
I suppose that's part of the problem. But really, it goes deeper than that. Because even taking into account "taskbar-colored glasses", it's clear from your explanation that the task bar doesn't really actually know or care about windows being created and destroyed, but rather whether they are candidates for the task bar.
Better names would reflect the actual needs and behavior of the task bar. E.g. something like HSHELL_WINDOWTASKBARADD/HSHELL_WINDOWTASKBARREMOVE,...Read more“These notifications were named while wearing taskbar-colored glasses.”
I suppose that’s part of the problem. But really, it goes deeper than that. Because even taking into account “taskbar-colored glasses”, it’s clear from your explanation that the task bar doesn’t really actually know or care about windows being created and destroyed, but rather whether they are candidates for the task bar.
Better names would reflect the actual needs and behavior of the task bar. E.g. something like HSHELL_WINDOWTASKBARADD/HSHELL_WINDOWTASKBARREMOVE, HSHELL_TASKBARCREATEITEM/HSHELL_TASKBARDESTROYITEM, or something equivalent.
If the messages reflected what the task bar does after a candidate is reported and handled, then CREATED and DESTROYED might make sense, i.e. by reporting elements being created or destroyed in the task bar itself. But for a message that is sent in response to state changes of a window instance, using the words CREATED and DESTROYED are simply misleading, whatever color glasses one might have on. 🙁
Read less







switchdesktopwithfade@hotmail.com  December 28, 2020


  0  Collapse this comment
Copy link
20+ years ago when this was created, it was undocumented functionality, so I’m just glad it exists at all. What I really wish for though is HSHELL_WINDOWMOVED and/or HSHELL_WINDOWSIZED. There’s no way to update the position/aspect ratio of live window thumbnails unless you poll.