Joshua Hudson  February 28, 2023
· Edited

  4  Collapse this comment
Copy link
I found what most people want is an elevated explorer window rather than granting permissions.
It's more like a footgun security issue rather than a true attack: operating the system in the most obvious way creates unintended security problems.
When I worked at the department of water resources; there was some software that had to be installed as administrator but also as the user who would be using it. So we did it the most obvious way;...Read moreI found what most people want is an elevated explorer window rather than granting permissions.
It’s more like a footgun security issue rather than a true attack: operating the system in the most obvious way creates unintended security problems.
When I worked at the department of water resources; there was some software that had to be installed as administrator but also as the user who would be using it. So we did it the most obvious way; took the user’s laptop (which we needed to install), granted that user admin, logged in as the user, installed the software, logged out, logged in as our own account and took administrator away.
In these days it would have been tricky to set us up a bomb on the user’s account; but it wouldn’t have mattered much if they did; local admin was always available to them by the most basic methods of parallel booting.
Read less







Piotr Siódmak  February 28, 2023


  4  Collapse this comment
Copy link
I agree. When I see this dialog box I think “what do you mean ‘no access’? Do you know who I am? I’m the admin, I have access everywhere. Continue! See? I do have access.” and the box says nothing that the “continue” will modify permissions. Something like “ignore the ‘no entry’ sign rather than take it down”.




skSdnW  February 28, 2023


  8  Collapse this comment
Copy link
Persistent access is rarely what the user actually wants, they just want to fiddle with a single file just this once most of the time. It would have been nice if Explorer asked you if you just want to launch a elevated window instead.





jimbobmcgee  February 28, 2023


  3  Collapse this comment
Copy link
Of course, we are told that Explorer couldn't run an elevated window, because there was only one Explorer, and everything was a flyweight around it.  So either all Explorer was administrative, or none of it was.
I don't know how true that was, or still is -- I mean, the file permissions dialog seems to be able to elevate itself and I always thought that was baked into Explorer -- and it was certainly possible...Read moreOf course, we are told that Explorer couldn’t run an elevated window, because there was only one Explorer, and everything was a flyweight around it.  So either all Explorer was administrative, or none of it was.
I don’t know how true that was, or still is — I mean, the file permissions dialog seems to be able to elevate itself and I always thought that was baked into Explorer — and it was certainly possible to get an elevated Explorer, if you don’t mind borrowing it from an elevated app’s Open File dialog.
But it’s what we were told.
In any case, that “Continue to gain access” dialog is so very destructive.  There is nothing worse than crafting a meticulous ACL around a set of sensitive folders, only for some other equally-privileged, painfully-unqualified, yet unfortunately-senior colleague to trample all over it with that bloody button.
That there isn’t GPO/registry that allows you to disable it is the real crime.
Read less